Washington Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
B.T. Washington Elementary School provides a safe, positive environment that is engaging, 
motivating, respectful, and empathetic.  Student achievement is promoted through a rigorous 
environment where students are encouraged to inquire, collaborate, and have social emotional 
skills, while they learn skills to be prepared for their future career.
School MissionThe mission of B.T. Washington School is to prepare all students to be successful and 
productively contribute in today™s global society while closing the achievement gap.
School Vision
Booker T. Washington School is a place where all students learn in a safe environment with 
high academic expectations. A caring and effective staff will partner with parents and the 
community to provide our students with the tools they need to be life-long productive citizens. District & School DescriptionThe El Centro Elementary School District is located in Imperial County, and is surrounded 
by thousands of acres of California™s most 
productive farming land.  El Centro 
Elementary School District is comprised of 
nine elementary schools, two middle schools, 
and one home school academy which 
educates approximately 5,700 students in 
transitional kindergarten through eighth grade per school year.  The district is 
committed to preparing its students for the 
future and dedicated to excellence in the 
realm of academics. All programs within the 
district are founded on the principle that 
Washington Elementary School serves 
students in transitional kindergarten through 
sixth grade.  During the 2018-19 school year, 
the school had an enrollment of 405 students  
including 12.6% in special education, 61.2% 
qualifying for English Language Learner 
support, 0.5% homeless youth, 1.2% foster 
youth, and 93.3% qualifying for free or 
reduced price lunch. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘†“‘
˘““

˘’š“
€
˘‘š†
˘“
˘š“š
ˇˇ
‡˚˙

—ˇ–˙ˇƒ
˜⁄ˇ
‹

…ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ—˚…ˇ
›˙



€˚ˇ‰…

‘−“˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
„ˇ
”˙
ˇ‚ˇ
„
ˇ
˙ˆ˚

Washington Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a 
three-year Local Control and Accountability 
Plan (LCAP) that supports the priorities 
for the state of California.  The following 
components of this SARC address some 
of the State™s priorities
:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area for the pupils they are 
teaching.Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned instructional materials; and school facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System, which includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general 
education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
 mathematics given in grades three through 
eight and grade eleven.  Only eligible 
students may participate in the 
 administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items 
are aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the 
 Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    

 cognitive disabilities).Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to 
the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
technical education sequences or 
programs of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
 technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł High school dropout ratesŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension ratesŁ Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of safety
State Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of  physical education.Parent InvolvementParents are encouraged to get involved in their 
child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating in 
a decision-making group, or attending school 
events.Parents stay informed of upcoming events and 
school activities through the school™s social 
media pages (FB, Twitter, Instagram, REMIND) 
the school website, and Blackboard Connect 
(automated telephone message delivery system). Contact the principal at (760) 352-
6611 for more information on how to become 
involved in your child™s learning environment.
Opportunities to Volunteer
ChaperoneClassroom HelperFundraising Activities
Library HelperCommitteesEnglish Learner Advisory Council
District English Learner Advisory Council
 Parent Teacher Association planned
School Site CouncilSchool Activities
Back to School NightFACT Center
Halloween CarnivalHealth FairOpen HouseParent NightParent ConferencesCoffee with the Principal - Monthly
Student OrientationStudent Recognition Assemblies
Curriculum & InstructionSchool LeadershipThe administrative team is comprised of the principal, who works closely with the 
leadership team, teachers, and school staff. 
Principal  Joan Hanson is responsible for the 
day-to-day operations of the school and the 
overall instructional program.  Coordinating 
efforts with the principal is the Leadership 
Team, comprised of the principal, the reading 
coach, and grade level representatives. The 
Leadership Team meets monthly throughout 
the year to evaluate the effectiveness of the 
instructional programs and implement 
Specialized InstructionAll curriculum and instruction is being aligned 
to the California State Standards approved 
by the State Board of Education. The 
instructional program is structured so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their learning level. Teachers use a variety of 
research-based instructional strategies and 
techniques using state-approved instructional 
materials to ensure academic success. Students with special gifts and talents need more challenging curriculum and instruction. 
The Gifted and Talented Education (GATE) 
program is offered to students in grades 3 

academically gifted through district-
administered assessments. Students 
participate in GATE activities during regular 
school hours; activities are based upon a designated theme. Instruction is provided by 
teachers who are GATE Trained. 
For students whose primary language is not 
English and who have limited English 

offers programs to help them acquire English 
as quickly as possible and prepare them to 
meet the state™s academic content standards. 
All classrooms are Structured English Immersion (SEI) and English learners may 
be clustered during ELD instruction. Instruction focuses on reinforcement of class 
lessons, reading intervention, and targeted support in areas of need. Washington 
Elementary offers an ELD Exchange Class 

Students in this class receive 30 minutes of instruction each day, Monday through Friday. 
Washington Elementary School™s teachers 
Washington Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł History-Social Studies FrameworkŁ Art Workshops
Ł English Learner InstituteŁ System 44 Intervention Training for Special 
   Education Teachers
Ł Read 180 Universal Intervention Training
Ł Data Teams Training
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL) Site 
   Team Training
Ł Renaissance Star Reading, Math, and Early   Literacy Training
2019-20 Trainings:
Ł Building Positive School and Classroom    CultureŁ CPR and First Aid - PE Teachers
Ł Department Collaboration MeetingsŁ District Writing Buckets
Ł District Curriculum Guide Updates (ELA,    ELD and Math)Ł Support for New Teachers in ELA 
   Curriculums, Math Curriculums, Online    Gradebook and Report Cards, Science    KitsŁ PEAKing English language Arts and Math 
   InstructionŁ Reading and Math Intervention Program    Trainings
Ł Reading Foundations Including Phonics    and Phonemic Awareness
Ł Technology Integration with District 
   Initiatives and CurriculumŁ Trauma Informed Practices
Ł Digital Badging Trainings in District
   Curriculum and STAR Assessments
Ł Reading FoundationsŁ New Social Studies CurriculumŁ Math Lesson StudiesŁ Math 180 Training
Ł Math 180, Read 180, System 44, and Do    the Math Coaching SupportŁ iRead Site Team Trainings
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Ł Co-Teaching
Ł Passionate Kids Projects Training for GATE 
   Teachers
Washington Elementary School offers support 
to new and veteran teachers through peer 
coaching and mentoring. Instructional aides 
are provided targeted training focused on 
teaching strategies and curriculum content. 
All staff are encouraged to attend professional 

support staff receive job-related training from 
department supervisors and district 
representatives.utilize the Journeys and/or Wonders series, 
state-approved reading intervention programs 
and textbook adoption. English Learners are 
assessed annually using the ELPAC exam 

for California); results are used to evaluate student progress, intervention programs, and 
teaching strategies.Washington Elementary School™s special 
education program is staffed by special 
education teachers and instructional aides. 
Instruction is provided in the least restrictive 
environment based on each student™s 
Individual Education Plan (IEP). Students 
have access to a comprehensive curriculum 
and are mainstreamed into the general education class with in-class support in both small group and individual settings. A portion 
of instruction may be provided in one of the 
special day classes. The IEP team meets 
annually to establish goals and objectives, 

effectiveness of the student™s plan, and make 
instructional adjustments as necessary. 
Washington Elementary School takes 
advantage of the district™s participation in the 

Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), which 
provides a pool of professional resources and 
Washington Elementary School provides a 
variety of intervention and remediation 
programs to support students™ efforts to 
achieve academic success and reach grade 
level expectations. Using Interim Assessment 
Blocks (IAB), as well as, district benchmark 
assessments and end-of-unit exams, teachers and administrators can identify students who are struggling or performing 

For those students who need extra help in 
any subject area, a Problem Solving Team 
pulls together school and family resources to 
identify and develop strategies to help 
students improve academic and/or behavioral 
performance. Intervention strategies include:
Ł Linda Mood Bell Instruction (Special  Education)Ł EL After School Tutoring
Ł iRead ProgramŁ Migrant After School Tutoring
Supplementary instructional materials are 
purchased as needed to support intervention 
programs. Classroom teachers monitor 
student performance on district benchmark assessments and end-of-unit tests to 
measure ongoing academic progress and 
adjust instructional needs.Enrichment ProgramsWashington Elementary School offers an 
expanded day kindergarten program, a band 
program to all upper grades who wish to participate.  All kindergarten through sixth 
grade students can participate in the After 
School Education & Safety (ASES) Program 
which offers enrichment programs in science, 
visual arts, performing arts, and physical 
education. Staff DevelopmentAll training and curriculum development activities in the El Centro Elementary School 
District are aligned to the California State 
Standards. During the 2018-19 school year, Washington 
Elementary School held site-based professional development devoted to:Ł AVID Elementary
Ł CAASPP/SBAC Training
Ł ELPAC Training
Ł GATE Training
Ł Kinder Raising a Reader Kick-Off
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & SupportDecisions concerning selection of staff 
development activities are performed by all 
staff using tools such as teacher input and data 
analysis to determine the areas in which 
additional teacher training may enhance 
classroom instruction and increase student 
achievement levels.  Washington Elementary 
School supports ongoing professional growth throughout the year on early release days. 
Teachers meet in both grade level and 
department level teams to conduct data analysis to identify areas of need.During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 school years, El Centro Elementary School 
District provided districtwide professional 
development training on the following:2017-18 & 2018-19 Trainings:
Ł Curriculum Embedded Technology Training
Ł Next Generation Science Standards    Training
Ł Math Lesson StudiesŁ Intro to New Financial System, AED 
   Training, Technology Updates
Ł iRead Training
Ł Synergy Grade BookŁ WonderWorks Intervention Curriculum
Ł Wonders ELA/ELD Curriculum
Ł Journeys ELA/ELD CurriculumŁ StudySync ELA Curriculum
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł Co-Teaching Training
Ł Illuminate Data and Assessment
Ł Synergy Online Report CardsŁ ELPAC
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł California School DashboardŁ Dual Immersion Team Training
Ł CAASPP Training
Washington Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum at Washington Elementary School are aligned to the 
California State Standards. Instructional materials are selected from the state™s most recent list 
of standards-based materials and adopted by the State Board of Education. The District follows 
the State Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core content materials (English/Language 
Arts, math, science, and social science). On Tuesday, October 8, 2019, the El Centro Elementary School District held a public hearing 
to certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been provided to 

by Education Code §60119 (1) that textbooks and instructional materials were provided to all 
students, including English Learners, in the District to the extent that each pupil has a textbook 

and instructional materials were provided to each student, including English Learners, that are 
aligned to the academic content standards and consistent with the cycles and content of the 
curriculum frameworks in math, science, history-social science, and English/Language Arts, 
including the English Language Development component of an adopted program, and 3) each 

consistent with the content and cycles of the curriculum frameworks adopted by the State Board 
for those subjects.
of instructional materials used for their visual/performing arts curricula. During the 2019-20 
school year, El Centro Elementary School District provided each student, including English 
Learners, enrolled in a visual/performing arts class with a textbook or instructional materials to 
use in class and to take home. These materials complied with the state™s content standards 
and curriculum frameworks.Classroom EnvironmentDiscipline & Climate for LearningWashington Elementary  School™s discipline policies are based upon a schoolwide discipline 
plan, which is used as a guide to develop school rules, develop behavior management 
programs, promote responsibility, promote respect, and minimize classroom disruptions. 
Teachers clearly identify and explain behavior expectations to their students and discuss 
consequences for poor or disruptive behavior in the classroom. Washington Elementary  School 
employs a progressive approach in managing students who make poor choices in behavior, do 
not follow school rules, or are disruptive in the classroom.  Class SizeThe Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by grade level, the average class size, and the number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students.Student Achievement
Physical FitnessIn the spring of each year, Washington 
Elementary School is required by the state to 


test measures each student™s ability to 

Students that either meet or exceed the 



results can be found at the CDE™s Website 
www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/. 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘“˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’š’€˘˘ˆ˘ˇ
˜˚˛•˙ˆˇ˘€‡…˘…—ƒ˘⁄ˇ˘
˝ˇ
ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
…ˆ›
⁄ˇ˘ˆˇ
⁄˘˘⁄ˇ˘
‰„˘˘”
…ˇˇˆ‚ˇ˘
˘™˘
ˇ
›ˆ˘–ﬁ˘˘
ﬂ˘ˆ˘
…
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
ﬂ…ˇ

˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˛˝˘˝˜˛
˜˛˛˘˝
˙˛˝
˛˙˝˜˛
˝
˛˛˝˘˝˜˛
˙˙˘˝
˜˜
ˇ˝˙
˜˝
˛˛˝
˛˙˝
˛˝
˜˝˛˜
˛˛˘˝
˛ˇ˝
˙˜˝
˛˛˝
˛˙˝
˛˝
˛˝
˜˛˜˘˝˜˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ






‘’š
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





ˇ†
“
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
Washington Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


“˝˙


‘˙˝’ˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
††



•€ˆˆ…˝˛€˘˚


–ƒ€˛
€˝˙˙⁄ˆ‹€˝˘˛


ˇ˘−˙€ƒˆ


˛ˆ‰€˛ƒˆ‹˙€˛€


˛ˆ„€˘−ˆ€˝˘˛ˆ›€
—
—
˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ

ˆ†

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆ
˚˝˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘
˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

ˇ˙˘ˆ
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
†ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ˙“˛‘’š
California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
(CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 

the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 
student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and 
performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district 
and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are 
shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that 
are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can 
be found on the California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
Professional StaffCounseling & Support StaffWashington Elementary  School provides 

provide additional services and support 
centered on the whole student academically, 
physically, and mentally. The Counseling and 
Support Services table in this report illustrates 
the availability of non-instructional support 
staff to Washington Elementary  School™s 
students.Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an employee™s 
regular work load on a weekly basis. For 
example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and 
available all day every day of the week; an 
FTE of 0.5 indicates that the staff member is 
available and on campus a portion (50%) of 
the week. ˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˝ˆ

†˝“

‘†ˇ

ˆ’˝ˇ
€
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
Washington Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Teacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, Washington Elementary School had 18 teachers who met all 

number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full 
credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English 
learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term 

to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.Facilities & SafetyThe district takes great efforts to ensure that 
all schools are clean, safe, and functional 
through proper facilities maintenance and 
campus supervision. Washington Elementary 
School™s original facilities were built in 1937, 
and ongoing maintenance and campus 
improvements ensure facilities remain up to date and provide adequate space for students 
and staff. District maintenance and site 
custodial staff ensure that the repairs 
necessary to keep the school in good 
condition are completed in a timely manner. 
A work order process is used by school and 
district staff to communicate non-routine 
maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are given the highest priority. In the past 12 
months the following campus improvements 
have been completed:Ł Asbestos abatement
Ł Remodel of Kinder restroomŁ Installation of new carpet in Rooms 23 & 28Ł Remodel Room 3Ł Remodel the east doors for security of the Multipurpose RoomEvery morning before school begins, the principal and the custodian inspect  facilities for safety 
hazards or conditions that need attention prior to students and staff entering school grounds. 
One day custodian and one evening custodian are assigned to Washington Elementary School. 
The day custodian is responsible for:Ł Cafeteria setup/cleanupŁ General grounds maintenanceŁ Classroom cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningŁ Trash Removal
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout 
the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The evening custodian 
is responsible for:Ł Classroom cleaningŁ Common use area cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff daily concerning maintenance and 
school safety issues.Campus SupervisionSchool administration and teaching staff 
place a high priority on providing adequate 
adult supervision on campus before, during, 
and after school. As students arrive on 
campus each morning, a school crossing guard and pupil supervisors are strategically 
assigned to designated entrance areas, the 
breakfast area and playground. During 
recess, teachers supervise playground 
activity. Pupil supervisors monitor lunch time 
activity in the cafeteria and on the playground. At the end of the day when 
students are dismissed, the school crossing 
guard, instructional aides, and pupil supervisors monitor student behavior to ensure a safe and orderly departure. Washington Elementary is a closed campus. 
During school hours, all visitors must sign in 

badges while on school grounds. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˚˝˙
˛˝
†˘˚˙“˚˝˘˛
‘˙˚˝˘
š€˙˛
š˙
€˚˛…—˚˝˙–ƒ˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˜˝˜˝˜˝ˆˆ˙
˘
˜˝˜˝˜˚
˘
ˇˇ˜
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡ˇˇˇˆˇ
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˆˇˇ
˘–
ˇˇˇˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
ƒ
‡‡⁄
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˝ˆ

†˝“

‘†ˇ

ˆ’˝ˇ
€
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
Washington Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
School Site Safety PlanThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for Washington Elementary in 


dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and 
departure from school, sexual harassment policy, and dress code policy. The school™s most 
recent school safety plan was reviewed, updated, and discussed with school staff and parents 
in the ELAC and SSC meeting annually.  Plan for approval is January 2020.
Facilities InspectionThe district™s maintenance department inspects Washington Elementary on an annual basis in 
accordance with Education Code §17592.72(c)(1).  Washington Elementary uses a school site 
inspection survey to identify unsafe or hazardous conditions and facility improvement needs.  

school inspection survey were corrected immediately by the district™s maintenance department. 
SARC Data & Internet AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located at http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about Washington 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 

statistics. Public Internet Access 
LocationParents may access Washington Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries. The 
closest public library to Washington 
Elementary School is the El Centro Public 
Library.
El Centro Public Library 539 W. State Street, El Centro
Phone Number: (760) 337-4565Website: www.cityofelcentro.org/library
Hours: Mon-Thurs 9am-6pm            Fri 9am- 5pm            Sat & Sun, Closed Number of Computers Available: 5



Washington Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District ExpendituresSalary & Budget ComparisonState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state. 
(Note: 2017-18 salary comparison data was the 
most recent data available at the time this 
report was published.) Expenditures Per StudentFor the 2017-18 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District spent an average of 
$12,338 of total general funds to educate each 

statements and in accordance with calculations 

expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools 
in the District and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the 
school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information 
regarding salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.

services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain 
other expenditures.) ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†˘ˇ˘“˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
‘’š€‘




†˘ˇ˘‡˝˙˘…
—’–—‘




“˘ˇ˘‡ƒˇ…
⁄’‹‹›
⁄’‹−š
−››‰
€›š−—–‘‰

„—’‹š›‘‘’–—⁄−›–‰šš’⁄−„−−„‰
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
In addition to general fund state funding, El Centro Elementary School District receives state  
and federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District 
received categorical, special education, and support programs funds for:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
DisclosureThe statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the El Centro Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this 
report met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data 
available. Data to prepare the instructional materials was acquired in October 2019 and 
school facilities sections were acquired in November 2019.˜˚˜˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
€˙˘˘˛
•˘˛…
˜˘˛
†ˇ˘˛
‘
˛˘˛
•˘˘ƒ…
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
