King Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message

report card informative and that it will give you a better understanding of our instructional 
program and of our school. We invite your comments about this report and any comments you 
may have for better serving our students and/or informing you of King School™s policies and 
curriculum. You may call us at (760) 337-6555 if you have any questions about this report.
School Vision
The M.L. King Community envisions an environment that is academically balanced by:Ł Fostering academic excellenceŁ Encouraging responsibility and self disciplineŁ Developing a lifetime love of learningŁ Promoting values, respect for other cultures, and tolerance for allŁ Instilling pride through a sense of purpose andŁ Providing a safe and supportive environment.School MissionThe mission of Martin Luther King School is to equip each student with the skills, knowledge, and personality to succeed as a productive citizen in a global society.
District & School DescriptionThe El Centro Elementary School District is located in Imperial County, and is surrounded by 
thousands of acres of California™s most productive farming land.  El Centro Elementary School 
District is comprised of nine elementary schools, two middle schools, and one home school 
academy which educates approximately 5,700 students in transitional kindergarten through 
eighth grade per school year.  The district is committed to preparing its students for the future 
and dedicated to excellence in the realm of academics. All programs within the district are 
King Elementary School serves students in kindergarten through sixth grade.  During the 2018-19 school year,  the school had an enrollment of 446 students  including 10.8% in special 
education, 52.9% qualifying for English Language Learner support, 0.7% homeless youth, 0.7% 
foster youth, and 90.1% qualifying for free or reduced price lunch. A 2009 California Business for 
 Education Excellence Award  Winner
 (Honor Roll)King Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ†“
˘‘’“
˘†’

˘š’’
€
˘†•
˘’
˘†•‘
‡ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

‡

€˚ˇ„–

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙
‡ˇ™ˇ
”
ˇ
˙ˆ˚

Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP) that supports the priorities for the 
state of California.  The following components 
of this SARC address some of the State™s 
priorities:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area for the pupils they are 
teaching.Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned instructional materials; and school facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System, which 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
 mathematics given in grades three through eight and grade eleven.  Only eligible 
students may participate in the 
 administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items 
are aligned with alternate achievement standards, which are linked with the 
 Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    

 cognitive disabilities).Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
 technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł High school dropout ratesŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension ratesŁ Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of 
 physical education.Parent InvolvementParents are encouraged to get involved in their child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating 
in a decision-making group, or attending 
school events.Parents stay informed of upcoming events 

newsletters, parent conferences, progress reports, the school marquee, the school 
website, monthly calendars, and Blackboard 
Connect (automated telephone message 

staff member at (760) 337-6555 for more 
information on how to become involved in 
your child™s learning environment.
Opportunities to Volunteer
ChaperoneFundraising Activities
Library HelperSchoolwide EventsCommitteesEnglish Learner Advisory Council
 Parent Teacher Association
School Site CouncilSchool Activities
Back to School Night Book Fairs Math NightMini-Field DaysLunch on the LawnMonthly PTA Events/Activities
Open HouseParent Trainings
Reading NightStudent Recognition Assemblies
Curriculum & InstructionSchool LeadershipThe administrative team is comprised of the principal, who works closely with parents, 
teachers, and school staff. Principal  Terri 
Ponce is responsible for the day-to-day 
operations of the school and the overall 
instructional program.  Coordinating efforts 
with the principal is the School Site Council, 

representatives, parents, and teacher representatives. The School Site Council 
meets monthly throughout the year to discuss 
school operational systems and educational 
concerns.King Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Supplementary instructional materials are purchased as needed to support intervention programs. Classroom teachers monitor student performance on district benchmark 
assessments, daily classwork, homework, and end-of-unit tests to measure ongoing 
academic progress and adjust instructional 
needs.Enrichment ProgramsKing Elementary School offers a half day TK 
program, an all day kindergarten program, a 
band program to all fourth grade students, 

students who wish to participate.   All 
kindergarten through sixth grade students can 
participate in the After School Education & 
Safety (ASES) Program which offers 
enrichment programs in science, visual arts, performing arts, and physical education. Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum at 
King Elementary School are aligned to the 
California State Standards. Instructional 
materials are selected from the state™s most 
recent list of standards-based materials and 
adopted by the State Board of Education. The 
District follows the State Board of Education™s 
adoption cycle for core content materials 
(English/Language Arts, math, science, and 
social science). On Tuesday, October 8, 2019, the El Centro 
Elementary School District held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks 
and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Governing Board 
adopted Resolution No. 100819-3003 which 

§60119 (1) that textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to all students, 
Specialized InstructionAll curriculum and instruction is being aligned 
to the California State Standards approved by 
the State Board of Education. The 
instructional program is structured so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to 
their learning level. Teachers use a variety of 
research-based instructional strategies and 
techniques using state-approved instructional 
materials to ensure academic success. Students with special gifts and talents need more challenging curriculum and instruction. 
The Gifted and Talented Education (GATE) 
program is offered to students in grades 3 

academically gifted through district-
administered assessments. Students 
participate in GATE activities during regular 
school hours; activities are based upon a 
designated theme. Instruction is provided by 
teachers who are GATE Trained.
For students whose primary language is not 
English and who have limited English 

to help them acquire English as quickly as 
possible and prepare them to meet the state™s 
academic content standards. All classrooms 
are Structured English Immersion (SEI) and 
English learners may be clustered during ELD 
instruction. Some students may receive English Language Development instruction as 
a supplement to their regular Language Arts 
instruction. ELD instruction is provided through a team-teaching approach. For designated time periods, students regroup 


King Elementary™s teachers utilize the 


series, state-approved reading intervention programs and textbook adoption. English 
Learners are assessed annually using the 

Assessment for California); results are used 
to evaluate student progress, intervention 
programs, and teaching strategies.King Elementary™s special education program is 
staffed by a special education teacher and 
resource specialist. Instruction is provided in the 
least restrictive environment and based on each 
student™s Individual Education Plan (IEP). 
Students have access to a comprehensive curriculum and are mainstreamed into the 
general education class with in-class support in 
both small group and individual settings. A 
portion of instruction may be provided in a RSP/
SDC combination class. The IEP team meets 

academic instruction, evaluate the effectiveness 
of the student™s plan, and make instructional 
adjustments as necessary. King Elementary 
takes advantage of the district™s participation in 

Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), which 
provide a pool of professional resources and 
King Elementary provides a variety of 
intervention and remediation programs to 
support students™ efforts to achieve academic 
success and reach grade level expectations. 
Using Interim Block Assessments (IAB), as well 
as, district benchmark assessments, end-of-unit 
exams, teachers and administrators can identify 
students who are struggling or performing below 

those students who need extra help in any 
subject area, a Problem Solving Team pulls 
together school and family resources to identify and develop strategies to help students improve 
academic and/or behavioral performance. 
Intervention strategies include:Ł After School Tutoring - Migrant & Low 
  PerformingŁ MobyMaxŁ Think Central
Ł Imagine Learning˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘“˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’š’€˘˘ˆ˘ˇ
˜˚˛•˙ˆˇ˘€‡…˘…—ƒ˘⁄ˇ˘
˝ˇ
ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
…ˆ›
⁄ˇ˘ˆˇ
⁄˘˘⁄ˇ˘
‰„˘˘”
…ˇˇˆ‚ˇ˘
˘™˘
ˇ
›ˆ˘–ﬁ˘˘
ﬂ˘ˆ˘
…
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
ﬂ…ˇ

King Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
including English Learners, in the District to 
the extent that each pupil has a textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 

and instructional materials were provided to each student, including English Learners, that 
are aligned to the academic content 
standards and consistent with the cycles and 
content of the curriculum frameworks in math, 
science, history-social science, and English/Language Arts, including the English 
Language Development component of an 
adopted program, and 3) each pupil enrolled 

or instructional materials that are consistent 
with the content and cycles of the curriculum frameworks adopted by the State Board for 
those subjects.In addition to core subject areas, districts are 
required to disclose in their SARCs the 

their visual/performing arts curricula. During 
the 2019-20 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District provided each 
student, including English Learners, enrolled 
in a visual/performing arts class with a 
textbook or instructional materials to use in class and to take home. These materials 
complied with the state™s content standards 
and curriculum frameworks.Staff DevelopmentAll training and curriculum development activities in the El Centro Elementary School 
District are aligned to the California State 
Standards. During the 2018-19 school year, King 
Elementary School held site-based 
professional development devoted to:Ł AVID
Ł Common Core State StandardsŁ Data Analysis
Ł District Curriculum GuidesŁ English Language Arts Grade Level
Ł English Language Arts Program Resources
Ł Formative Assessments
Ł GO! MathŁ Non-Violent Crisis Prevention Intervention
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & SupportŁ School BusinessŁ Social Science & Science Training
Decisions concerning selection of staff 
development activities are performed by all 
staff using tools such as teacher input and 
data analysis to determine the areas in which 
additional teacher training may enhance 
classroom instruction and increase student achievement levels.  King Elementary School 
supports ongoing professional growth 
throughout the year on minimum days and 
early release days. Teachers meet in both 
grade level and department level teams to 
conduct data analysis to identify areas of 
need.Ł iRead Site Team Trainings
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Ł Passionate Kids Trainings for GATE 
   Teachers
Ł Co-Teaching
King Elementary School offers support to new 
and veteran teachers through peer coaching 
and mentoring. Instructional aides are provided targeted training focused on 
teaching strategies and curriculum content. 
All staff are encouraged to attend professional 

support staff receive job-related training from 
department supervisors and district representatives.Student Achievement
California Assessment of 
Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes the Smarter Balanced 
Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students 
in the general education population, and the 
California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for 

disabilities.  Only eligible students may 
participate in the administration of the CAAs.  
CAAs items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards, which are linked with 
the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  
CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards 
in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three 
through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy 
and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive 
tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test 
items are aligned with alternative achievement 
standards which are linked with the Common 
Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable 
subgroup. Results are shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking 
the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup 
criteria. More information on CAASPP can be 
found on the California Department of 
Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/
ca/.During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 school years, El Centro Elementary School 
District provided districtwide professional 
development trainings on the following:2017-18 & 2018-19 Trainings:
Ł Curriculum Embedded Technology Training
Ł Next Generation Science Standards    Training
Ł Math Lesson StudiesŁ Intro to New Financial System, AED 
   Training, Technology Updates
Ł iRead Training
Ł Synergy Grade BookŁ WonderWorks Intervention Curriculum
Ł Wonders ELA/ELD Curriculum
Ł Journeys ELA/ELD CurriculumŁ StudySync ELA Curriculum
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł Co-Teaching Training
Ł Illuminate Data and Assessment
Ł Synergy Online Report CardsŁ ELPAC
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł California School DashboardŁ Dual Immersion Team Training
Ł CAASPP Training
Ł History-Social Studies FrameworkŁ Art Workshops
Ł English Learner InstituteŁ System 44 Intervention Training for Special 
   Education Teachers
Ł Read 180 Universal Intervention Training
Ł Data Teams Training
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL) Site    Team Training
Ł Renaissance Star Reading, Math, and Early
   Literacy Training
2019-20 Trainings:
Ł Building Positive School and Classroom    CultureŁ CPR and First Aid - PE Teachers
Ł Department Collaboration MeetingsŁ District Writing Buckets
Ł District Curriculum Guide Updates (ELA,    ELD and Math)Ł Support for New Teachers in ELA 
   Curriculums, Math Curriculums, Online    Gradebook and Report Cards, Science    KitsŁ PEAKing English language Arts and Math 
   InstructionŁ Reading and Math Intervention Program    Trainings
Ł Reading Foundations Including Phonics    and Phonemic Awareness
Ł Technology Integration with District 
   Initiatives and CurriculumŁ Trauma Informed Practices
Ł Digital Badging Trainings in District
   Curriculum and STAR Assessments
Ł Reading FoundationsŁ New Social Studies CurriculumŁ Math Lesson StudiesŁ Math 180 Training
Ł Math 180, Read 180, System 44, and Do    the Math Coaching SupportKing Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Classroom EnvironmentClass SizeThe Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students.˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆ
˚˝˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘
˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

˙˘
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
†ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ˙“˛‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙
†““

’šˆˆš˘˚


•‡š˛
……………………………………………………˝˙˙—ˆ–˝˘˛


ˇ˘⁄˙š‡ˆ


˛ˆ‹š˛‡ˆ–š˙š˛š


˘˛ˆ›šƒš˘⁄ˆš⁄˘˛ˆ
……………………………………………………˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ



Physical FitnessIn the spring of each year, King Elementary 
School is required by the state to administer 



in six major areas. Students that either meet 



district and state results can be found at the 
CDE™s Website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.  
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˛˜˘˝˜˙
˜˝
˛˛˛˜˘˝˜˛
˙˛˜˘˝˜˜
˝
˛˙˛˘˝
˛˝˜˛
ˇ˝
˙˜˝
˙˛˛˛˘˝˜˛
˙˝
˛˝
˛˙˜˘˝
˛˙˛˘˝
˛ˇ˛˙˘˝
˙˜˝
˛˛˛˙˘˝˜˛
˙˝
˛˝
˛˙˜˘˝
˛˝˜
˛




“‘’
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

˜š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
King Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Discipline & Climate for LearningKing Elementary School™s discipline policies are based upon behavior expectations, which is 
used as a guide to develop school rules, develop behavior management programs, promote 
responsibility, promote respect, and minimize classroom disruptions. Teachers clearly identify 
and explain behavior expectations to their students and discuss consequences for poor or 
disruptive behavior in the classroom. King Elementary  School employs a progressive approach 
in managing students who make poor choices in behavior, do not follow school rules, or are 
disruptive in the classroom. Professional StaffCounseling & Support StaffKing Elementary School provides professional, 

services and support centered on the whole student academically, physically, and mentally. 
The Counseling and Support Services table in 
this report illustrates the availability of non-
instructional support staff to King Elementary  
School™s students.
Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an employee™s 
regular work load on a weekly basis. For 
example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and available all day every day of the week; an FTE 
of 0.5 indicates that the staff member is 
available and on campus a portion (50%) of 
the week.Teacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, King Elementary School had 18 teachers who met all credential 

teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) 

grade level, subject area, student group, etc.Facilities & SafetyThe district takes great efforts to ensure that 
all schools are clean, safe, and functional 
through proper facilities maintenance and 
campus supervision. King Elementary School™s original facilities were built in 1989, 
and ongoing maintenance and campus 
improvements ensure facilities remain up to 
date and provide adequate space for students and staff.  In the last 12 months, the 
following campus repair/improvement 
projects were completed:Ł Replacement of the stage doorŁ Installation of security cameras to the 
exterior of the campusŁ Installation of a wrought iron fence around 
the front of the schoolŁ Replacement of two swing sets in the back 
playgroundŁ Installation of carpet in Rooms 1 & 22019-20 Campus Improvements:Ł Replacement of the drinking fountainsŁ Installation of a security camera TV in the 
 Ł Installation of three swing sets and other    playground equipment piecesDistrict maintenance and site custodial staff 
ensure that the repairs necessary to keep 
the school in good condition are completed 
in a timely manner. A work order process is 
used by school and district staff to 
communicate non-routine maintenance 
requests. Emergency repairs are given the highest priority. 
Every morning before school begins, the custodian inspects the  facilities for safety 
hazards or other conditions that need 
attention prior to students and staff entering 
school grounds. One day custodian and one 
evening custodian are assigned to King 
Elementary School. The day custodian is 
responsible for:Ł Cafeteria setup/cleanupŁ Classroom cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningŁ Trash removal
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout 
the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The evening custodian 
is responsible for:Ł Classroom cleaningŁ Common use area cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial staff on an as-needed basis concerning 
maintenance and school safety issues.˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˜˙˜˝˜˙ˆˆ˙
˘
˜˙˜˝˜˚
˘
ˇˇˆ
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡ˇˇˇˆˇ
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˆˇˇ
˘–
ˇˇˇˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ


˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝



ˇ
†
ˆ˝˜
˝˜
ˆ’
ˆˇ
˝˜

†š
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛


King Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Campus SupervisionSchool administration and teaching staff 
place a high priority on providing adequate 
adult supervision on campus before, during, and after school. As students arrive on 
campus each morning, the principal, the 
custodian, the resource clerk, and six 
playground supervisors are strategically 
assigned to designated entrance areas, the 
breakfast area and playground. During 
recess, teachers supervise playground 
activity. Playground supervisors monitor 
lunch time activity in the cafeteria and on the 
playground. At the end of the day when 
students are dismissed, playground 
supervisors monitor student behavior to 
ensure a safe and orderly departure. King Elementary is a closed campus. During 
school hours, all visitors must sign in at the 

through the Lobby Guard system, and wear 

grounds. 


SARC Data & Internet AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about King Elementary 
School and comparisons of the school to the 
district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest 
provides reports for school accountability, 
including but not limited to, CAASPP results, 
Physical Fitness results, Suspensions and 
Expulsions, Dropout & Graduation Rates, 
Public Internet Access 
LocationParents may access King Elementary School™s SARC and access the internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries. The 
closest public library to King Elementary 
School is the El Centro Public Library.
El Centro Public Library 539 W. State Street, El Centro
Phone Number: (760) 337-4565Website: www.cityofelcentro.org/library
Hours: Mon-Thurs 9am-7pm             Fri 9am- 5pm             Sat 9am-1pm            Sun, ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 5
School Site Safety PlanThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for King Elementary in 
collaboration with local agencies and the 

requirements. Components of this plan include 
child abuse reporting procedures, teacher 
disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and departure from school, sexual 
harassment policy, and dress code policy. The 
school™s safety plan is reviewed, updated, and 
was discussed with staff in January 2020.
Facilities InspectionThe district™s maintenance department inspects 
King Elementary on an annual basis in 
accordance with Education Code §17592.72(c)
(1).  King Elementary uses a school site inspection survey to identify unsafe or hazardous conditions and facility improvement 
needs.  The most recent school inspection took 

the school inspection survey were corrected 
immediately by the district™s maintenance 

restrooms were fully functional and available for student use.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˛˝
†˘“ˇ˝˚˙‘˚˝˘˛
’˙˚˝˘
€˙
€˝‡
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
King Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District ExpendituresSalary & Budget ComparisonState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State 
Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar average daily attendance throughout the state. 
(Note: 2017-18 salary comparison data was the 
most recent data available at the time this 
report was published.) Expenditures Per StudentFor the 2017-18 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District spent an average of 
$12,338 of total general funds to educate each 

statements and in accordance with calculations 

expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools 
in the District and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the 
school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information 
regarding salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.

services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain 
other expenditures.) ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ˜˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†˘ˇ˘“˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
‘’šš€




†˘ˇ˘‡˝˙˘…
—’–—–




“˘ˇ˘‡ƒˇ…
–’⁄‘–
–’⁄—‹
—š—›
−š‹—€−‰›

—šš’‰‹„‘‘’„€–——„›‹‹’–—‰—⁄š›
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
In addition to general fund state funding, El Centro Elementary School District receives state  
and federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District 
received categorical, special education, and support programs funds for:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
DisclosureThe statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the El Centro Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this 
report met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data 
available. Data to prepare the instructional materials was acquired in October 2019 and 
school facilities sections were acquired in November 2019.˜˚˜˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
€˙˘˘˛
•˘˛…
˜˘˛
†ˇ˘˛
‘
˛˘˛
•˘˘ƒ…
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
