Hedrick Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
This report card provides parents and community with ongoing information about Hedrick 
Elementary School. The report card covers everything from student achievement and student 

We invite any comments and/or suggestions that might help us in better serving our students. You 
may call us at (760) 352-4750 or email me at jsinclair@ecesd.org if you have any questions about 
this report.School Vision
ﬁHome of the Super Starsﬂ Hedrick strives to provide a premier learning environment that fosters high expectations and 
creates members of the global community who are well-prepared academically and socially for 
their chosen futures.School MissionﬁProud to be a Hedrick Super StarﬂAward-winning Hedrick Elementary School provides a positive learning environment with high 
academic and behavior expectations ensuring success for all students.District & School DescriptionThe El Centro Elementary School District is located in Imperial County, and is surrounded by 
thousands of acres of California™s most 
productive farming land.  El Centro Elementary School District is comprised of nine elementary schools, two middle schools, and one home 
school academy which educates approximately 5,700 students in transitional kindergarten 
through eighth grade per school year.  The 
district is committed to preparing its students for 
the future and dedicated to excellence in the 
realm of academics. All programs within the 
district are founded on the principle that ﬁchildren 
Hedrick Elementary School serves students in 
kindergarten through sixth grade.  During the 
2018-19 school year,  the school had an 
enrollment of 551 students  including 9.1% in 
special education, 36.7% qualifying for English 
Language Learner support, 0.4% homeless 
youth, 0.7% foster youth, and 80.8% qualifying for free or reduced price lunch. Title I Academic 
Achievement Award
A 2013 California Business
  for Excellence Award Recipient
A California 
Distinguished School˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ†“
˘
˘’š†

˘
•
˘š“
˘‡
˘“
…ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

•˚ˇ„–

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙
…ˇ™ˇ
”
ˇ
˙ˆ˚

Gold Ribbon Award
Hedrick Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP) that supports the priorities for the state 
of California.  The following components of this 
SARC address some of the State™s priorities
:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area for the pupils they are teaching.
Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and school facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System, which includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general 
education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
 mathematics given in grades three through eight and grade eleven.  Only eligible 
students may participate in the 
 administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are 
aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the  Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    

 cognitive disabilities).Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
 technical education sequences or programs of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł High school dropout ratesŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension ratesŁ Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of 
safetyState Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of  physical education.Parent InvolvementParents are encouraged to get involved in 
their child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating in 
a decision-making group, or attending school 
events.Parents stay informed of upcoming events 

conferences, progress reports, a monthly calendar, the school marquee, the school 
website, and Blackboard Connect (automated 
telephone message delivery system). Contact 

4750 for more information on how to become 
involved in your child™s learning environment.
Opportunities to Volunteer
Classroom HelperFamily EventsFundraising Activities
Schoolwide Activities
CommitteesEnglish Learner Advisory Council
 Parent Teacher Organization
School Site CouncilSchool Activities
Annual Book FairAnnual Halloween Costume ParadeAttendance IncentiveBack to School NightCandy Cane LaneFamily NightsHonor Roll Assemblies
 Lunch on the LawnOpen HouseParent ConferencesPublic Schools Week
Student Recognition Assemblies
Curriculum & InstructionSchool LeadershipThe administrative team is comprised of the 
principal, who works closely with the support staff, teachers, and school staff. Principal  
Jamie Sinclair is responsible for the day-to-day 
operations of the school and the overall 
instructional program.  Specialized InstructionAll curriculum and instruction is being aligned to the California State Standards approved by 
the State Board of Education. The instructional 
program is structured so that all students 
receive instruction appropriate to their learning 
level. Teachers use a variety of research-
based instructional strategies and techniques 
using state-approved instructional materials to 
ensure academic success. Students learning English receive English 
Language Development instruction. All 
classrooms are Structured English Immersion 
(SEI) and English learners may be clustered 
during ELD instruction to receive targeted 

providing ELD utilize appropriate supplemental 
materials such as Imagine Learning, a computer based instruction. Students are 
monitored through the ELPAC exam given 
once a year, teacher observation and 
benchmark assessments; results are used to 
evaluate and adjust individualized learning 
strategies. Hedrick Elementary School™s special education 
program is staffed by special education 
teachers and instructional assistants. 
Instruction is provided in the least restrictive 
environment based on each student™s 
Individual Education Plan (IEP). Students have 
access to a comprehensive curriculum and are 
mainstreamed into the general education class 
with in-class support in both small group and individual settings. The IEP team meets 
annually to establish goals and objectives, 

effectiveness of the student™s plan, and make 
instructional adjustments as necessary. 
Hedrick Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł iRead Site Team Trainings
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Ł Co-Teaching
Decisions concerning selection of staff 
development activities are performed by all 
staff using tools such as teacher input and 
data analysis to determine the areas in which 
additional teacher training may enhance 
classroom instruction and increase student achievement levels. Hedrick Elementary 
School supports ongoing professional growth 
throughout the year on minimum days and 
early release days. Teachers meet in grade 
level teams to conduct data analysis to 
identify areas of need. Hedrick Elementary School offers support to 
new and veteran teachers through peer 
coaching and mentoring. Instructional aides are provided targeted training focused on 
teaching strategies and curriculum content. All 
staff are encouraged to attend professional 

support staff receive job-related training from 
department supervisors and district representatives.Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum at 
Hedrick Elementary  School are aligned to the 
California State Standards. Instructional 
materials are selected from the state™s most 
recent list of standards-based materials and 
adopted by the State Board of Education. The 
District follows the State Board of Education™s 
adoption cycle for core content materials 
(English/language arts, math, science, and 
social science). On Tuesday, October 9, 2018, the El Centro 
Elementary School District held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks 
and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Governing Board 
adopted Resolution #100918-2062 which 

§60119 (1) that textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to all students, 
including English Learners, in the District to 
the extent that each pupil has a textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 

and instructional materials were provided to 
each student, including English Learners, that 
are aligned to the academic content standards 
and consistent with the cycles and content of 
the curriculum frameworks in math, science, 
history-social science, and English/Language 
Arts, including the English Language 
Development component of an adopted 
program, and 3) each pupil enrolled in a 

instructional materials that are consistent with 
the content and cycles of the curriculum 
frameworks adopted by the State Board for 
those subjects. Hedrick Elementary School takes advantage 
of the district™s participation in the Imperial 

Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), which 
provides a pool of professional resources and 
Hedrick Elementary School provides a variety 
of intervention and enrichment programs to 
support students™ efforts to achieve academic 
success and reach grade level expectations. 
Using Interim Assessment Blocks (IAB), as 
well as, district benchmark assessments, 
state test results and end-of-unit exams, 
teachers and administrators can identify 
students who are struggling or performing 

For those students who need extra help in 
any subject area, a Student Study Team pulls 
together school and family resources to 
identify and develop strategies to help students improve academic and/or behavioral 
performance. Intervention strategies include:
Ł Imagine Learning (ELD)Ł Accelerated Reader
Ł Reading Foundation Rotations (1-3)Ł After School Programs
Ł iRead Program (K-2)Ł Accelerated Math
Ł Small Group Intervention (1-2)Supplementary instructional materials are 
purchased as needed to support intervention 
programs. Classroom teachers monitor 
student performance on district benchmark assessments and end-of-unit tests to 
measure ongoing academic progress and 
adjust instructional needs.Enrichment ProgramsHedrick Elementary School offers After 
School Education and Safety (ASES) which 
consists of art, sports, and tutoring programs 
to kindergarten through sixth grade students 
who need a safe place to stay after school 
while parents are working.    Staff DevelopmentAll training and curriculum development 
activities in the El Centro Elementary School 
District are aligned to the California State 
Standards.During the 2018-19 school year, Hedrick 
Elementary School held site-based professional development devoted to:Ł Art Training
Ł AVID Strategies
Ł College & Career ReadinessŁ Common Core State Standards Ł Data Teams
Ł ELA & Math Training
Ł Integrated Technology Instruction
Ł Next Generation Science Standards    (NGSS)Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & SupportŁ Unit PlanningDuring the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 school years, El Centro Elementary School 
District provided districtwide professional 
development training on the following:2017-18 & 2018-19 Trainings:
Ł Curriculum Embedded Technology Training
Ł Next Generation Science Standards    Training
Ł Math Lesson StudiesŁ Intro to New Financial System, AED 
   Training, Technology Updates
Ł iRead Training
Ł Synergy Grade BookŁ WonderWorks Intervention Curriculum
Ł Wonders ELA/ELD Curriculum
Ł Journeys ELA/ELD CurriculumŁ StudySync ELA Curriculum
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł Co-Teaching Training
Ł Illuminate Data and Assessment
Ł Synergy Online Report CardsŁ ELPAC
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł California School DashboardŁ Dual Immersion Team Training
Ł CAASPP Training
Ł History-Social Studies FrameworkŁ Art Workshops
Ł English Learner InstituteŁ System 44 Intervention Training for Special 
   Education Teachers
Ł Read 180 Universal Intervention Training
Ł Data Teams Training
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL) Site    Team Training
Ł Renaissance Star Reading, Math, and Early
   Literacy Training
2019-20 Trainings:
Ł Building Positive School and Classroom    CultureŁ CPR and First Aid - PE Teachers
Ł Department Collaboration MeetingsŁ District Writing Buckets
Ł District Curriculum Guide Updates (ELA,    ELD and Math)Ł Support for New Teachers in ELA 
   Curriculums, Math Curriculums, Online    Gradebook and Report Cards, Science    KitsŁ PEAKing English language Arts and Math 
   InstructionŁ Reading and Math Intervention Program    Trainings
Ł Reading Foundations Including Phonics    and Phonemic Awareness
Ł Technology Integration with District 
   Initiatives and CurriculumŁ Trauma Informed Practices
Ł Digital Badging Trainings in District
   Curriculum and STAR Assessments
Ł Reading FoundationsŁ New Social Studies CurriculumŁ Math Lesson StudiesŁ Math 180 Training
Ł Math 180, Read 180, System 44, and Do    the Math Coaching SupportHedrick Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card

of instructional materials used for their visual/performing arts curricula. During the 2018-19 
school year, El Centro Elementary School District provided each student, including English 
Learners, enrolled in a visual/performing arts class with a textbook or instructional materials to 
use in class and to take home. These materials complied with the state™s content standards 
and curriculum frameworks.Classroom EnvironmentDiscipline & Climate for LearningHedrick Elementary  School™s discipline policies are based upon Positive Behavioral 
Interventions and Supports (PBIS), a multi-tiered approach to social, emtoional and behavioral 
support.  This schoolwide positive behavioral management plan is used as a guide to develop 
school rules, develop behavioral management programs, promote responsibility, promote 
respect, and minimize classroom disruptions. Disciplinary intervention is managed by school 

Class SizeThe Class Size Distribution table in this report illustrates the distribution of class sizes by grade 
level, the average class size, and the number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 
students, and 33 or more students.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘“˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’š’€˘˘ˆ˘ˇ
˜˚˛•˙ˆˇ˘€‡…˘…—ƒ˘⁄ˇ˘
˝ˇ
ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
…ˆ›
⁄ˇ˘ˆˇ
⁄˘˘⁄ˇ˘
‰„˘˘”
…ˇˇˆ‚ˇ˘
˘™˘
ˇ
›ˆ˘–ﬁ˘˘
ﬂ˘ˆ˘
…
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
ﬂ…ˇ

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ




˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

ˇ†
˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˛˙˘˝˜˙
˜˝
˙˛˝
˙˙˝
˛˝˜
˛˝
˛˙˙˘˝
˜˜
ˇ˝
˜˝
˙˛˝
˙˙˝
˙˝˜˛
˝˜
˛˝
˛ˇ˝
˜˝
˙˛˝
˙˙˝
˙˝
˛˙˜˘˝
˛˝˜
˛˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝







‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
Hedrick Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆ
˚˝˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘
˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

˛
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
“ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ˙‘˛’š€
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙
†“†

‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••˘
••••••••••••••••••••‡ˆˆ—˝˛


–˛
••••••••••••••••••••˜⁄˚ˆˆ‹
••••••••••••••••••••˝˙˙›ˆ−˝˘˛


ˇƒˆ


˛ˆ⁄˛ƒˆ−˛


˘˛ˆ‹˘„ˆ„˘˛ˆ
••••••••••••••••••••˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
ˇ
ˆ
The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the 
school™s overall score in each applicable 
subgroup. Results are shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking 
the exam. For those categories that are 
blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the California 
Department of Education™s website www.
cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.Physical FitnessIn the spring of each year, Hedrick 
Elementary School is required by the state 

test measures each student™s ability to 

Students that either meet or exceed the 



and state results can be found at the CDE™s 
Website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/. 
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ

˚˛˝˚˚
Student Achievement
 California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
(CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 

the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 
student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and 
performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). Hedrick Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Professional StaffTeacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, Hedrick Elementary School had 22 teachers who met all 

number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full 
credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English 
learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term 

to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.Counseling & Support StaffHedrick Elementary School provides 

additional services and support centered on the 
whole student academically, physically, and 
mentally. The Counseling and Support Services 
table in this report illustrates the availability of 
non-instructional support staff to Hedrick 
Elementary School™s students.
Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an employee™s 
regular work load on a weekly basis. For 
example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and available all day every day of the week; an FTE 
of 0.5 indicates that the staff member is 
available and on campus a portion (50%) of the 
week. Facilities & SafetyThe district takes great efforts to ensure that all schools are clean, safe, and functional through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Hedrick Elementary School™s original 
facilities were built in 1955, and ongoing maintenance and campus improvements ensure 
facilities remain up to date and provide adequate space for students and staff. District 
maintenance and site custodial staff ensure that the repairs necessary to keep the school in 
good condition are completed in a timely manner. A work order process is used by school and 
district staff to communicate non-routine maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are given 
the highest priority.  In the last 12 months the following campus improvements have been 
completed:Ł Asbestos abatement of Rooms 6 & 18
Ł Installation of new carpeting in Rooms 6 & 182019-20 Campus Improvements:Ł Asbestos abatement in Room 12
Ł Installation of new carpeting in Rooms 12 & 26Ł Installation of a new LVT in Kinder Room 2
Every morning before school begins, the 
custodian inspects  facilities for safety hazards or conditions that need attention 
prior to students and staff entering school 
grounds. Two full-time custodians are 
assigned to Hedrick Elementary School. The 
custodians are responsible for:Ł Cafeteria setup/cleanupŁ Remada eating area cleaningŁ Trash removal 
Ł Sidewalk cleaningŁ Open/Close of schoolŁ Deliver suppliesŁ Classroom cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff daily concerning maintenance and 
school safety issues.Campus SupervisionSchool administration and teaching staff 
place a high priority on providing adequate 
adult supervision on campus before, during, and after school. As students arrive on 
campus each morning, pupil supervisors are strategically assigned to designated entrance 
areas, the bus drop off/pick up area and 
playground. Breakfast is provided in the 
students™ classroom after P.E. During morning 
recess, teachers supervise playground 
activity. The principal and pupil supervisors 
monitor lunch time activity in the cafeteria and 
on the playground. At the end of the day 
when students are dismissed, pupil 
supervisors monitor student behavior to 
ensure a safe and orderly departure. Hedrick Elementary is a closed campus. During school hours, all visitors must sign in 

be scanned through Lobby Guard, and wear 

grounds. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˛˝
˘†ˇ˝˚˙“˚˝˘˛
‘˙˚˝˘
š€˙•˙“
˚˝˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝



ˆ˝˜
˝˜
ˇ

ˆ‘
ˆˇ
’


š

˝

€ˇˇ˝ˆ˘˙˝˝˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆˆˆˆˆˆˆˆ˙
˘
ˆ˜ˆˆ˜˝
˘
˜ˇ
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡ˇˇˇˆˇ
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˆˇˇ
˘–
˜ˇˇˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
⁄
‡‹
Hedrick Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SARC Data & Internet AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about Heck Elementary 
School and comparisons of the school to the 
district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest 
provides reports for school accountability, 
including but not limited to, CAASPP results, 
Physical Fitness results, Suspensions and 
Expulsions, Dropout & Graduation Rates, Public Internet Access 
LocationParents may access Hedrick Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet at any 
of the county™s public libraries. The closest 
public library to Hedrick Elementary School is 
the El Centro Public Library.
El Centro Public Library 539 W. State Street, El Centro
Phone Number: (760) 337-4565Website: www.cityofelcentro.org/library
Hours:    Mon-Thurs: 9am-7pm   Fri 9am- 5pm   Sat: 9am-1pm   Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 5
School Site Safety PlanThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for Hedrick Elementary in 


dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and 
departure from school, sexual harassment policy, and dress code policy. The school™s safety 
plan is reviewed, updated, and discussed with school staff in January 2020.
Facilities InspectionThe district™s maintenance department inspects Hedrick Elementary on an annual basis in 
accordance with Education Code §17592.72(c)(1).  Hedrick Elementary uses a school site 
inspection survey to identify unsafe or hazardous conditions and facility improvement needs.  

inspection survey were corrected immediately by the district™s maintenance department. During 



Hedrick Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District ExpendituresSalary & Budget ComparisonState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State 
Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state. 
(Note: 2017-18 salary comparison data was the 
most recent data available at the time this report 
was published.)Expenditures Per StudentFor the 2017-18 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District spent an average of 
$12,338 of total general funds to educate each 

statements and in accordance with calculations 

expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools 
in the District and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the 
school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information 
regarding salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.

services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain 
other expenditures.) ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ˜˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
†˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
“˘ˇ˘‘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
’š
‡
‡
‡
‡
“˘ˇ˘—˝˙˘–
•š
‡
‡
‡
‡
‘˘ˇ˘—ƒˇ–
€š•⁄‹
’š
‹−‰
€„›•„−€‰
†
‹”š−⁄„‹‹š”−’⁄€‰››š’•⁄•„‹‰
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
In addition to general fund state funding, El Centro Elementary School District receives state  
and federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District 
received categorical, special education, and support programs funds for:DisclosureThe statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the El Centro Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this 
report met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data 
available. Data to prepare the instructional materials was acquired in October 2019 and 
school facilities sections were acquired in November 2019.Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
˜˚˜˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
€˙˘˘˛
•˘˛…
˜˘˛
†ˇ˘˛
‘
˛˘˛
•˘˘ƒ…
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
