Lincoln Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
Lincoln School is an ideal place to learn, where children are given opportunities to grow and 
succeed academically. The staff of Lincoln School recognizes that educating children is our 
primary role as instructional leaders. We embrace students™ strengths.
We take great pride in our clean and beautiful campus and work hard at keeping it attractive and 
welcoming for all students, parents and staff in our surrounding community. Our staff is committed 
to a high academic and enrichment program. We provide a balanced, integrated, and relevant 
educational program for all students. Lincoln staff is committed to providing a quality education 
to the entire student population.This school accountability report card provides parents and the community with ongoing 

School MissionAt Lincoln Elementary School we believe that all students can be academically successful. We 
encourage ethnical and cultural diversity as well as provide a safe, orderly, and welcoming 
environment. We will achieve this by creating a positive and college going school culture in which 
every stakeholder does their part to reach our school goal with a maximum effort on everyone™s 
part. We will know that we have  accomplished this goal when our English Language Learners 

data to help drive instruction and allocate appropriate resources to meet our goals. The school 
staff will build professional learning communities that will strengthen our communication and 
collaboration to ultimately improve student achievement. Using this monitoring system, all 
students who are not meeting expectations will be  assigned to an appropriate support system 
to help ensure that we meet our goals. To help reach this goal our leadership will be composed 
of the leadership team and the principal.District & School DescriptionThe El Centro Elementary School District is 
located in Imperial County, and is surrounded by 
thousands of acres of California™s most productive 
farming land.  El Centro Elementary School District is comprised of nine elementary schools, two middle schools, and one home school academy which educates approximately 5,700 
students in transitional kindergarten through 
eighth grade per school year.  The district is 
committed to preparing its students for the future 
and dedicated to excellence in the realm of 
academics. All programs within the district are 

Lincoln Elementary School serves students in kindergarten through sixth grade.  During the 
2018-19 school year,  the school had an 
enrollment of 390 students  including 16.2% in 
special education, 54.6% qualifying for English 
Language Learner support, 0.5% homeless youth, 
0.5% foster youth, and 94.6% qualifying for free or reduced price lunch. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘†“
˘“‘‘

˘š€

˘€
˘š
˘‘
•ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

•

˚ˇ„–

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙

•ˇ™ˇ
”
ˇ
˙ˆ˚

Lincoln Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP) that supports the priorities for the 
state of California.  The following components 
of this SARC address some of the State™s 
priorities:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area for the pupils they are 
teaching.Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned instructional materials; and school facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress (CAASPP) System, which 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general 
education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
 mathematics given in grades three through 
eight and grade eleven.  Only eligible students may participate in the  administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items 
are aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the 
 Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    

 cognitive disabilities).Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
technical education sequences or 
programs of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
 technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł High school dropout ratesŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension ratesŁ Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of 
 physical education.Parent InvolvementParents are encouraged to get involved in their 
childrens™ education by volunteering in the 
classroom, participating in a school government group, and by attending school 
events.Parents stay informed of upcoming events and 

conferences, progress reports, the school marquee, the school website, and Blackboard Connect (automated telephone message 

staff member at (760) 352-3060 for more 
information on how to become involved in your 
childrens™ education.
Opportunities to Volunteer
Classroom HelperFundraising Activities
Library HelperCommitteesEnglish Learner Advisory Council
 Parent Teacher Association
School Site CouncilSchool Activities
ASES Parent MeetingsBack to School NightChristmas PosadaFall FestivalOpen HouseStudent PerformancesStudent Recognition Assemblies
Curriculum & InstructionSchool LeadershipThe administrative team is comprised of the principal, who works closely with the 
leadership team, teachers, and school staff. 
Principal  Juan Aguilera is responsible for the 
day-to-day operations of the school and the 
overall instructional program. Coordinating efforts with the principal is the Leadership 
Team, comprised of the principal, the reading 
coach, and grade level representatives. The 
Leadership Team meets monthly throughout 
the year to discuss school operational systems and educational concerns.Specialized InstructionAll curriculum and instruction is being aligned 
to the Common Core State Standards 
approved by the State Board of Education. 
The instructional program is structured so that 
all students receive instruction appropriate to 
their learning level. Teachers use a variety of 
research-based instructional strategies and 
techniques using state-approved instructional 
materials to ensure quality programs and 
academic success. For students whose primary language is not 
English and who have limited English 

a Structured English Immersion (SEI) 
program to help them acquire English as 
quickly as possible and prepare them to meet 
the state™s academic content standards. 
English Learners receive small group and/or 
individualized instructional support in the 
classroom. Instruction focuses on 
reinforcement of class lessons, reading 
intervention, and targeted support in areas of 
need. Some students may receive English Language Development instruction as a 
supplement to their regular Language Arts 
instruction. Students provided ELD instruction 

and receive targeted instruction at their 
teachers utilize the Journeys and/or Wonders 
series,  state-adopted programs. English 
Learners are assessed annually using the 

Assessment for California). This result is used 
to evaluate student progress, intervention 
programs, and teaching strategies.Lincoln Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł District Writing Buckets
Ł District Curriculum Guide Updates (ELA,    ELD and Math)Ł Support for New Teachers in ELA 
   Curriculums, Math Curriculums, Online    Gradebook and Report Cards, Science    KitsŁ PEAKing English language Arts and Math 
   InstructionŁ Reading and Math Intervention Program    Trainings
Ł Reading Foundations Including Phonics    and Phonemic Awareness
Ł Technology Integration with District 
   Initiatives and CurriculumŁ Trauma Informed Practices
Ł Digital Badging Trainings in District
   Curriculum and STAR Assessments
Ł Reading FoundationsŁ New Social Studies CurriculumŁ Math Lesson StudiesŁ Math 180 Training
Ł Math 180, Read 180, System 44, and Do    the Math Coaching SupportŁ iRead Site Team Trainings
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Ł Co-Teaching
Decisions concerning selection of staff 
development activities are performed by all 
staff using tools such as teacher input and 
data analysis to determine the areas in which 
additional teacher training may enhance 
classroom instruction and increase student 
achievement levels. Lincoln Elementary 
School supports ongoing professional growth 
throughout the year on minimum days and 
early release days. Teachers meet in both 
grade level and department level teams to 
conduct data analysis to identify areas of 
need.Lincoln Elementary School offers support to 
new and veteran teachers through peer coaching and mentoring. Instructional aides 
are provided targeted training focused on teaching strategies and curriculum content. 
All staff are encouraged to attend professional 

support staff receive job-related training from 
department supervisors and district 
representatives.Lincoln Elementary School™s special 
education program is staffed by special 
education teachers and instructional aides. 
Instruction is provided in the least restrictive 
environment based on each student™s 
Individual Education Plan (IEP). Students 
have access to a comprehensive curriculum 
and are mainstreamed into the general 
education class with in-class support in both 
small group and individual settings. A portion 
of instruction may be provided in the special 
day class. The IEP team meets annually to 

academic instruction, evaluate the 
effectiveness of the student™s plan, and make 
instructional adjustments as necessary. 
Lincoln Elementary School takes advantage 
of the district™s participation in the Imperial 

Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), which 
provides a pool of professional resources and 
Lincoln Elementary School provides a variety 
of intervention and remediation programs to 
support students™ efforts to achieve academic 
succesl expectations. Using Interim Assessment Blocks (IAB), as well as, district 
benchmark assessments, CAASPP test 
results and end-of-unit exams, teachers and 
administrators can identify students who are struggling or performing below state 

students who need extra help in any subject area, a Problem Solving Team pulls together 
school and family community resources to identify and develop strategies to help 
students improve behavior and/or academic 
performance. Intervention strategies include:
Ł Reading SupportŁ MathŁ Language SupportSupplementary instructional materials are 
purchased as needed to support intervention 
programs. Classroom teachers monitor 
student performance on district benchmark assessments and end-of-unit tests to 
measure ongoing academic progress and 
adjust instructional needs.Enrichment ProgramsLincoln Elementary School offers an all day 
kindergarten program, a band program to all 
fourth through sixth grade students who wish 
to participate.  All students can participate in 
the After School Education & Safety (ASES) 
Program which offers enrichment programs 
in STEM, visual arts, performing arts, and 
physical education.  Staff DevelopmentAll training and curriculum development activities in the El Centro Elementary School 
District are aligned to the California State 
Standards. During the 2018-19 school year, Lincoln 
Elementary School held site-based professional development devoted to:Ł Introduction to English Language   Arts Exemplars
Ł AVID Elementary
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & SupportŁ Data Teams & Analysis
Ł Professional Learning CommunitiesŁ Universal Access
Ł ELA/Math Unit PlanningŁ Creating Student Friendly StandardsŁ English Language Arts Program Resources
Ł SPARKS Training
Ł Common Core State StandardsŁ English Language Arts Grade Level
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 school years, El Centro Elementary School 
District provided districtwide professional 
development training on the following:2017-18 & 2018-19 Trainings:
Ł Curriculum Embedded Technology Training
Ł Next Generation Science Standards    Training
Ł Math Lesson StudiesŁ Intro to New Financial System, AED 
   Training, Technology Updates
Ł iRead Training
Ł Synergy Grade BookŁ WonderWorks Intervention Curriculum
Ł Wonders ELA/ELD Curriculum
Ł Journeys ELA/ELD CurriculumŁ StudySync ELA Curriculum
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł Co-Teaching Training
Ł Illuminate Data and Assessment
Ł Synergy Online Report CardsŁ ELPAC
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł California School DashboardŁ Dual Immersion Team Training
Ł CAASPP Training
Ł History-Social Studies FrameworkŁ Art Workshops
Ł English Learner InstituteŁ System 44 Intervention Training for Special 
   Education Teachers
Ł Read 180 Universal Intervention Training
Ł Data Teams Training
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL) Site 
   Team Training
Ł Renaissance Star Reading, Math, and Early
   Literacy Training
2019-20 Trainings:
Ł Building Positive School and Classroom    CultureŁ CPR and First Aid - PE Teachers
Ł Department Collaboration MeetingsLincoln Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Class SizeThe Class Size Distribution table in this 
report illustrates the distribution of class 
sizes by grade level, the average class size, 
and the number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 students, and 33 or more 
students.Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum at Lincoln Elementary School are aligned to the 
California State Standards. Instructional materials are selected from the state™s most recent list 
of standards-based materials and adopted by the State Board of Education. The District follows 
the State Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core content materials (English/Language 
Arts, math, science, and social science). On Tuesday, October 8, 2019, the El Centro Elementary School District held a public hearing 
to certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been provided to 

by Education Code §60119 (1) that textbooks and instructional materials were provided to all 
students, including English Learners, in the District to the extent that each pupil has a textbook 

and instructional materials were provided to each student, including English Learners, that are 
aligned to the academic content standards and consistent with the cycles and content of the 
curriculum frameworks in math, science, history-social science, and English/Language Arts, 
including the English Language Development component of an adopted program, and 3) each 

consistent with the content and cycles of the curriculum frameworks adopted by the State Board 
for those subjects.
of instructional materials used for their visual/performing arts curricula. During the 2019-20 
school year, El Centro Elementary School District provided each student, including English 
Learners, enrolled in a visual/performing arts class with a textbook or instructional materials to 
use in class and to take home. These materials complied with the state™s content standards 
and curriculum frameworks.Classroom EnvironmentDiscipline & Climate for LearningLincoln Elementary  School™s discipline policies are based upon a schoolwide discipline plan, 
which is used as a guide to develop school rules, develop behavior management programs, 
promote responsibility, promote respect, and minimize classroom disruptions. Teachers clearly 
identify and explain behavior expectations to their students and discuss consequences for poor 
or disruptive behavior in the classroom. Lincoln Elementary  School promotes Positive 
Behavioral Supports & Interventions (PBIS), a multi-tiered approach to social, emotional and 
behavioral support.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘“˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’š’€˘˘ˆ˘ˇ
˜˚˛•˙ˆˇ˘€‡…˘…—ƒ˘⁄ˇ˘
˝ˇ
ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
…ˆ›
⁄ˇ˘ˆˇ
⁄˘˘⁄ˇ˘
‰„˘˘”
…ˇˇˆ‚ˇ˘
˘™˘
ˇ
›ˆ˘–ﬁ˘˘
ﬂ˘ˆ˘
…
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
ﬂ…ˇ

˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˛˜˘˝˜˛
˜˝
˛˛˛˛˘˝
˛˙˝
˛˝
˜˝
˜˝
˜˜˛˘˝˜
ˇ˛˝˘˝˜˛
˜˝
˛˛˝
˛˙˝
˛˝
˜˝
˜˝
˜˜˙˘˝˜
ˇ˛˝˘˝˛˛
˜˛˝˘˝˛˛
˛˛˛˘˝˜˛
˙˝
˛˝
˜˝
˜˝
˜




†“‘š€
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

˜•
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ




˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

ˇ

Lincoln Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••‡ˆˆ—˝˛


–˛⁄˘˚˛ˆ‡‹
••••••••••••••••••••˝˙˙›ˆ−˝˘˛


ˇƒˆ


˛ˆ”˛ƒˆ−˛


˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

Student Achievement
 California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
(CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 

the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 
student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and 
performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆ
˚˝˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘
˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

˙˝˙
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ˙†˛“‘’
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ

ˆ

The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable 
subgroup. Results are shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking 
the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be 
found on the California Department of 
Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/
ca/.Physical FitnessIn the spring of each year, Lincoln Elementary 
School is required by the state to administer 



in six major areas. Students that either meet 



district and state results can be found at the CDE™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/. 
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
Lincoln Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Professional StaffCounseling & Support StaffLincoln Elementary  School provides 

additional services and support centered on 
the whole student academically, physically, 
and mentally. The Counseling and Support 
Services table in this report illustrates the 
availability of non-instructional support staff 
to Lincoln Elementary  School™s students.
Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an employee™s 
regular work load on a weekly basis. For 
example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and 
available all day every day of the week; an 
FTE of 0.5 indicates that the staff member is 
available and on campus a portion (50%) of 
the week. Teacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, Lincoln Elementary School had 18 teachers who met all 

number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full 
credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English 
learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term 

to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.Facilities & SafetyThe district takes great efforts to ensure that all schools are clean, safe, and functional through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Lincoln Elementary School™s original 
facilities were built in 1949, and ongoing maintenance and campus improvements ensure 
facilities remain up to date and provide adequate space for students and staff. District 
maintenance and site custodial staff ensure that the repairs necessary to keep the school in 
good condition are completed in a timely manner. A work order process is used by school and 
district staff to communicate non-routine maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are given 
the highest priority.  In the last 12 months the following campus improvements have been 
completed:Ł Installation of new projectors in all classroomsŁ Installation of new HVAC in the cafeteria
Ł Asbestos abatement in Room 12
Ł Installation of new carpeting in Rooms 12, 18 & 6 1/22019-20 Campus Improvements:Ł Asbestos abatement in Rooms 5 & 11
Ł Installation of new carpeting in Rooms 5 & 11
Ł Remodel Room 11 for Pisco Lab
Every morning before school begins, the custodian inspects  facilities for safety 
hazards or conditions that need attention prior 
to students and staff entering school grounds. 
One day custodian and one evening 
custodian are assigned to Lincoln Elementary 
School. The day custodian is responsible for:
Ł Cafeteria setup/cleanupŁ General grounds maintenanceŁ Restroom cleaningŁ Trash Removal
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The evening custodian is 
responsible for:Ł Classroom cleaningŁ General use area cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff on an as-needed basis concerning 
maintenance and school safety issues.Campus SupervisionSchool administration and teaching staff 
place a high priority on providing adequate 
adult supervision on campus before, during, 
and after school. As students arrive on 
campus each morning, pupil supervisors are 
strategically assigned to designated entrance 
areas and playground. Breakfast is served 
daily in their classrooms. During recess, 

playground activity. The pupil supervisors 
monitor lunch time activity in the cafeteria and 
on the playground. At the end of the day when 
students are dismissed, the pupil supervisors 
monitor student behavior to ensure a safe and 
orderly departure. Lincoln Elementary is a 
closed campus. During school hours, all 
have their state issued ID ready to present to 
be scanned through the security system, and 

grounds. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˚˝˙
†˙“‘˚˝’˘š˚˙€˝˚˛
˛˝
˘˚˙•˚˝˘˛
‡˙˚˝˘
‘˙
‘˝–
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˜˝ˆˆˆˆ˙
˘
˜˝˜˝
˘
ˇˇ
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡ˇˇˇˆˇ
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˆˇˇ
˘–
ˇˇˇˆˇ

‡‡ƒ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝



ˇˇ˝˜
˝˜
˝†““
ˇ
“
ˆ‘˝€˝ˇ


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘

Lincoln Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
School Site Safety PlanThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for Lincoln Elementary in 


dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and 
departure from school, sexual harassment policy, and dress code policy. The school™s safety 
plan is reviewed, updated, and discussed with school staff in November 2019.
Facilities InspectionThe district™s maintenance department inspects Lincoln Elementary on an annual basis in 
accordance with Education Code §17592.72(c)(1).  Lincoln Elementary uses a school site 
inspection survey to identify unsafe or hazardous conditions and facility improvement needs.  

inspection survey were corrected immediately by the district™s maintenance department. During 
SARC Data & Internet AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about Lincoln 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 

statistics. Public Internet Access 
LocationParents may access Lincoln Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet at any 
of the county™s public libraries. The closest 
public library to Lincoln Elementary School is 
the El Centro Public Library.
El Centro Public Library 539 W. State Street, El Centro
Phone Number: (760) 337-4565Website: http://www.cityofelcentro.org/library
Hours: Mon-Thurs 9am-6pm             Fri 9am- 5pm            Sat & Sun, Closed Number of Computers Available: 5



Lincoln Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District ExpendituresSalary & Budget ComparisonState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state. 
(Note: 2017-18 salary comparison data was the 
most recent data available at the time this 
report was published.) Expenditures Per StudentFor the 2017-18 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District spent an average of 
$12,338 of total general funds to educate each 

statements and in accordance with calculations 

in this report 1) compares the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and 
restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the District and throughout the state, 
and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries 
at the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding salaries can be found at the CDE 


facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.) ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˙˜˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†˘ˇ˘“˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
‘’šš€




†˘ˇ˘‡˝˙˘…
—’–—ƒ




“˘ˇ˘‡⁄ˇ…
ƒ’‹‘›
‹’–−‘
€š‰
ƒ„‘−−−š‰

‹„’‘€€€€’›—‹‹€‰‘‘’‹−š‘€‰
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
In addition to general fund state funding, El Centro Elementary School District receives state  
and federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District 
received categorical, special education, and support programs funds for:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
DisclosureThe statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the El Centro Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this 
report met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data 
available. Data to prepare the instructional materials was acquired in October 2019 and 
school facilities sections were acquired in November 2019.˜˚˜˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
€˙˘˘˛
•˘˛…
˜˘˛
†ˇ˘˛
‘
˛˘˛
•˘˘ƒ…
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
