Kennedy Middle School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
Kennedy Middle School™s staff is committed to assisting all students in achieving at the highest 
academic levels, and doing whatever it takes to meet the unique needs and interests of young 
California Business for Education Excellence as an Honor Roll Star School. In addition, Kennedy 
Middle School has been designated a six-time California Schools to Watch program, in 2005, 
2008, 2011, 2014, 201, and 2020. The ﬁSchools to Watchﬂ recognition began as a national 
program to identify middle-grade schools across the country that were meeting or exceeding 37 
criteria developed by the National Forum. At the time of Kennedy™s initial recognition, there were 
only four schools selected for this designation and 47 nationwide. Kennedy is committed to 
continue the standard of excellence outlined in the ﬁSchools to Watchﬂ program by working to be 
responsive to student needs, and by providing rigorous academic instruction for all our students. 
In 2015, Kennedy Middle School was also awarded the Gold Ribbon Award and the Title I 
Academic Achieving School Award by the California Department of Education. These recognitions 
were given to schools who have embraced rigorous academic standards, provided excellence 
and creativity in teaching and creating a positive school climate.School Vision & Mission
Kennedy has a nurturing environment that fosters students™ well-being and empowers them to 
achieve academic excellence and personal growth in order to embrace life™s challenges.
Kennedy Middle School™s Mission is to:
Ł Teach a standards-based curriculum
Ł Follow a data-driven curriculumŁ Have a technology-based learning environmentŁ Promote positive life-long learning experiences and college and career readinessŁ Establish and sustain vertical and horizontal instructional articulationŁ Promote school pride and establish a positive school cultureŁ Develop a positive rapport with students and parentsŁ Strengthen teacher, parent, and student communication
District & School DescriptionThe El Centro Elementary School District is located in Imperial County, and is surrounded by 
thousands of acres of California™s most productive farming land.  El Centro Elementary School 
District is comprised of nine elementary schools, two middle schools, and one home school 
academy which educates approximately 5,700 students in transitional kindergarten through eighth 
grade per school year.  The district is committed to preparing its students for the future and 
dedicated to excellence in the realm of academics. All programs within the district are founded 
A California 
 ﬁSchools to Watch, Taking Center Stageﬂ 
 Award Recipient
California Business for Education Excellence Honor Roll Star SchoolGold Ribbon Award
Title I Academic 
Kennedy Middle School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Kennedy Middle School serves students in seventh and eighth grade.  During the 2018-
19 school year,  the school had an enrollment 
of  400 students  including 13.5% in special 
education, 49.8% qualifying for English 
Language Learner support, 0.8% homeless 
youth, 0.3% foster youth, and 85.5% qualifying 
for free or reduced price lunch. Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP) that supports the priorities for the 
state of California.  The following components 
of this SARC address some of the State™s 
priorities:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area for the pupils they are 
teaching.Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and school facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress (CAASPP) System, which includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
 mathematics given in grades three through eight and grade eleven.  Only eligible 
students may participate in the  administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are 
aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the 
 Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    

 cognitive disabilities).Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
 technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł High school dropout ratesŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension ratesŁ Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of 
 physical education.Parent InvolvementParents are encouraged to get involved in their 
child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating in 
a decision-making group, or attending school 
events.Parents stay informed of upcoming events and 
school activities through parent conferences, progress reports, the school marquee, the school website, Renaissance Home Connect, 
Synergy Parent Portal, and Blackboard Connect (automated telephone message 

staff member at (760) 352-0444 for more 
information on how to become involved in your 
child™s learning environment.
Opportunities to Volunteer
Chaperone Field Trips
Chaperone School DancesClassroom HelperFundraising Activities
Library HelperRoom ParentCommitteesEnglish Learner Advisory Council
 Parent Teacher Association
School Site CouncilSchool Activities
AVID Night
Back to School NightBand/Orchestra PerformanceDrama ClubOpen HouseSpelling BeeSports EventsCurriculum & InstructionSchool LeadershipThe administrative team is comprised of the 
principal and assistant principal who work closely with the leadership team, teachers, and 
school staff. Principal, Richard Sanchez, and 
assistant principal, Lynee Pacheco, are 
responsible for the day-to-day operations of the 
school and for the overall instructional program. 
Coordinating efforts with the administration is 
the Leadership Team, comprised of the 
principal, assistant principal, the reading coach, 
and grade level representatives. The 
Leadership Team and AVID Site Team meet 
throughout the year to discuss school 
operational systems and educational concerns. 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˘
˘†““

‘
’ˇˇ
€˚˙

•ˇ‡˙ˇ…
˜—ˇ
–


˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ•˚
‹˙

’

‘˚ˇ−

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
‰ˇ
„˙
’ˇ”ˇ
‰
ˇ
˙ˆ˚

Kennedy Middle School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Decisions concerning selection of staff 
development activities are performed by all 
staff using tools such as teacher input and 
data analysis to determine the areas in which 
additional teacher training may enhance 
classroom instruction and increase student 
achievement levels.  Kennedy Middle School 
supports ongoing professional growth 
throughout the year on minimum days and 
early release days. Teachers meet in both 
grade level and department level teams to conduct data analysis to identify areas of 
need.During the 2017-18, 2018-19  and 2019-20 
school years, El Centro Elementary School 
District provided districtwide professional 
development training on the following topics:2017-18 & 2018-19 Trainings:

Ł CPR and First Aid for PE Teachers
Ł Curriculum Embedded Technology Training
Ł Intro to New Financial System, AED 
   Training, Technology Updates
Ł Schoolwide AVID Training
Ł Student Engagement and the Adolescent 
   Brain Workshop with Author Heather 
   Wolpert-Gawron for Teachers
Ł Math Lesson StudiesŁ Synergy Grade BookŁ StudySync ELA Curriculum
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł Co-Teaching Training
Ł Illuminate Data and Assessment
Ł Synergy Online Report CardsŁ ELPAC
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł California School DashboardŁ Dual Immersion Team Training
Ł CAASPP Training
Ł History-Social Studies FrameworkŁ Art Workshops
Ł English Learner InstituteŁ Read 180 Universal Intervention Training
Ł Data Teams Training
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL) Site    Team Training
Ł Renaissance Star Reading, Math, and    Early Literacy Training
2019-20 Trainings:
Ł Building Positive School and Classroom    CultureŁ CPR and First Aid for PE Teachers
Ł Department Collaboration MeetingsŁ Support for New Teachers in ELA 
   Curriculums, Math Curriculums, Online    Gradebook and Report Cards, Science    KitsŁ Digital Badging Trainings in District
   Curriculum and STAR Assessments
Ł Reading and Math Intervention Program    Trainings
Ł New Social Studies CurriculumŁ Math Lesson StudiesŁ Math 180 Training
Ł Math 180, Read 180, System 44, and Do    the Math Coaching SupportSpecialized InstructionAll curriculum and instruction is being aligned 
to the California State Standards approved 
by the State Board of Education. The 
instructional program is structured so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to 
their learning level. Teachers use a variety of 
research-based instructional strategies and 
techniques using state-approved instructional 
materials to ensure academic success. Students with special gifts and talents need 
more challenging curriculum and instruction. 
The Gifted and Talented Education (GATE) 
program is offered to students in grades 7 

academically gifted through district-
administered assessments. Students are 
clustered by grade level to receive differentiated instruction. Instruction is 
provided by teachers who are GATE trained 
annually. 
For students whose primary language is not 
English and who have limited English 

programs to help them acquire English as 
quickly as possible and prepare them to meet 
the state™s academic content standards. 
Instruction focuses on reinforcement of class 
lessons, reading intervention, and targeted 
support in areas of need. All classes are 
Structured English Immersion (SEI) and 
English learners may be clustered during ELD instruction.  Some students may receive 
English Language Development instruction 
as a supplement to their regular Language 
Arts instruction. Students provided ELD 
instruction are regrouped based on language 


assessed annually using the ELPAC exam 

of California); results are used to evaluate student progress, intervention programs, and 
teaching strategies.Kennedy Middle School™s special education 
program is staffed by  special education 
teachers and instructional aides. Instruction 
is provided in the least restrictive environment 
based on each student™s Individual Education 
Plan (IEP). Students have access to a 
comprehensive curriculum and are 
mainstreamed into the general education class with in-class support in both small 
group and individual settings. A portion of 
instruction may be provided in the special day 
class. The IEP team meets annually to 

academic instruction, evaluate the 
effectiveness of the student™s plan, and make 
instructional adjustments as necessary. 
Kennedy Middle School takes advantage of the district™s participation in the Imperial 

Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), which 
provides a pool of professional resources and 
Kennedy Middle School provides a variety of intervention and remediation programs to 
support students™ efforts to achieve academic 
success and reach grade level expectations. 
Using in-home assessment benchmarks (IAB), 
as well as, district benchmark assessments, and end-of-unit exams, teachers and administrators can identify students who are 

grade level standards. For those students who 
need extra help in any subject area, a Problem 
Solving Team pulls together school and family 
resources to identify and develop strategies to 
help students improve academic and/or 
behavioral performance. Intervention strategies 
include:Ł Computer Intervention ProgramsŁ Imagine LearningŁ Immigrant & EL Intervention
Ł Math 180Ł MobyMaxŁ Migrant Intervention (Grades 7-8)Ł Read 180Ł Tutoring
Supplementary instructional materials are purchased as needed to support intervention 
programs. Classroom teachers monitor student 
performance on district benchmark 
assessments and end-of-unit tests to measure 
ongoing academic progress and adjust 
instructional needs.Enrichment ProgramsKennedy Middle School offers band and 
orchestra for students who wish to participate. In addition, art class, MESA (Mathematics, 
Engineering, Science and Achievement) class 
and AVID Program are offered to students.      
Staff DevelopmentAll training and curriculum development activities in the El Centro Elementary School 
District are aligned to the California State 
Standards. During the 2018-19 school year, Kennedy 
Middle School held site-based professional 
development devoted to:Ł AVID
Ł Common Core State Standards (Math,   Science, English Language Arts & History)
Ł Data Analysis
Ł Differentiated Instruction
Ł ELD StrategiesŁ English Language Arts Grade Level
Ł English Language Arts Program Resources
Ł GO! MathŁ Instructional StrategiesŁ Intervention StrategiesŁ Language Arts Training
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & SupportŁ Renaissance Reading ProgramŁ School BusinessŁ Special EducationŁ SST Online
Ł StudySyncŁ Thinking Maps
Kennedy Middle School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Ł Co-Teaching
Ł Technology Integration with District 
   Initiatives and CurriculumŁ Trauma Informed Practices
Ł GATE Teacher Annual Training
Kennedy Middle School offers support to new 
and veteran teachers through peer coaching 
and mentoring. Instructional aides are provided targeted training focused on teaching 
strategies and curriculum content. All staff are 
encouraged to attend professional workshops 

receive job-related training from department 
supervisors and district representatives.Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum at 
Kennedy Middle School are aligned to the 
California State Standards. Instructional 
materials are selected from the state™s most 
recent list of standards-based materials and 
adopted by the State Board of Education. The 
District follows the State Board of Education™s 
adoption cycle for core content materials 
(English/Language Arts, math, science, and 
social science). On Tuesday, October 8, 2019, the El Centro 
Elementary School District held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks 
and instructional materials have been provided to students. The Governing Board 
adopted Resolution No. 100819-3003 which 

§60119 (1) that textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to all students, 
including English Learners, in the District to 
the extent that each pupil has a textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 

and instructional materials were provided to each student, including English Learners, that 
are aligned to the academic content standards 
and consistent with the cycles and content of 
the curriculum frameworks in math, science, 
history-social science, and English/Language 
Arts, including the English Language 
Development component of an adopted 
program, and 3) each pupil enrolled in a 

instructional materials that are consistent with 
the content and cycles of the curriculum frameworks adopted by the State Board for 
those subjects.
of instructional materials used for their visual/performing arts curricula. During the 2019-20 
school year, El Centro Elementary School District provided each student, including English 
Learners, enrolled in a visual/performing arts class with a textbook or instructional materials to 
use in class and to take home. These materials complied with the state™s content standards and 
curriculum frameworks.Classroom EnvironmentClass SizeThe Average Class Size & Distribution table 
in this report illustrates the distribution of class 
sizes by core subject, the average class size, 
and the number of classes that contain 1-22 students, 23-32 students, and 33 or more 
students.Discipline & Climate for LearningKennedy Middle  School™s discipline policies 
are based upon a schoolwide discipline plan, 
which is used as a guide to develop school rules, develop behavior management 
programs, promote responsibility, promote 
respect, and minimize classroom disruptions. 
Teachers clearly identify and explain behavior 
expectations to their students and discuss 
consequences for poor or disruptive behavior 
in the classroom. Kennedy Middle School 
uses Positive Behavior Intervention and 
Support (PBIS) program focused on improving 
classroom behavior, establishing clear 
behavior expectations, reducing misbehavior, 
motivating students to put forth their best 
effort, increasing academic engagement, and 
teaching students to behave respectfully and 
to value diversity.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˙ˆˇ˘†“†‘’˘š‘‘˘‘ˆ˘€ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘•“‡˘ˇ…˘—–ˆƒ
‘ˆ
‘˘‘ˆ
⁄—ˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
˙˘
—ˆ‹
‰˘˘
⁄˘‘ˆ˘
—
‚ˇ˘‘ˆˇ
‚˘˘‚ˇ˘
ﬁﬂ˘•˘Ł
—ˇˇ•ˆŒˇ˘
˘‡˘
ˇ
‹ˆ˘˜˚˛˛˛˝˚˝˛˝˝˙
ˆ
˜˜˜

˜˜

˜˝
˜˝
ˆ
˝

˜˝˛

˜
˝˝
ˆ


˛

˜˝
˜˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝



†
‘’
š‘•
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˇ˘
˘ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘
˘
˘ˇ˘˘˘˘˘˘
˝˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘
˘
Kennedy Middle School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


“˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••‡ˆˆ—˝˛


–˛
••••••••••••••••••••˝˙˙⁄ˆ‹˝˘˛


ˇƒˆ


˛ˆ‰˛ƒˆ‹˛


˛ˆ„›˝˘˛ˆ›
‘‘
••
‘‘
••
˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ

ˆ

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆ
˚˝˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘
˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

˚˙˙˚
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
†ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ˙“˛‘’š
The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the 
school™s overall score in each applicable 
subgroup. Results are shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be 
found on the California Department of 
Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/
ca/.Physical FitnessIn the spring of each year, Kennedy Middle 
School is required by the state to administer 



tasks in six major areas. Students that either 



district and state results can be found at the 
CDE™s Website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/. 
Student Achievement
California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
(CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 

the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 
student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and 
performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). ˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
Kennedy Middle School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Professional StaffTeacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, Kennedy Middle School had 20 teachers who met all credential 

teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) 
total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ 

grade level, subject area, student group, etc.Counseling & Support StaffKennedy Middle  School provides 

provide additional services and support 
centered on the whole student academically, 
physically, and mentally. The Counseling and 
Support Services table in this report illustrates 
the availability of non-instructional support 
staff to Kennedy Middle  School™s students. 
Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an employee™s 
regular work load on a weekly basis. For example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and available all day every day of the week; an 
FTE of 0.5 indicates that the staff member is 
available and on campus a portion (50%) of 
the week.Facilities & SafetyThe district takes great efforts to ensure that all schools are clean, safe, and functional through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Kennedy Middle School™s original 
facilities were built in 1964, and ongoing maintenance and campus improvements ensure 
facilities remain up to date and provide adequate space for students and staff. District 
maintenance and site custodial staff ensure that the repairs necessary to keep the school in 
good condition are completed in a timely manner. A work order process is used by school and 
district staff to communicate non-routine maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are given 
the highest priority.  In the last 12 months the following campus improvements have been 
completed:Ł Technology upgrades
Ł Asbestos abatement in Room 22
Ł Installation of new carpet in Room 22 & 10Ł Installation of fencing on new south property2019-20 Campus ImprovementsŁ Installation of new carpeting in three    classsroomsŁ Repainting two classroomsŁ Installation of new carpet in Rooms 23 &    10AŁ Installation of new cafeteria lunch tablesEvery morning before school begins, the 
custodian inspects  facilities for safety hazards 
or conditions that need attention prior to 
students and staff entering school grounds. 
Two day custodians and one evening 
custodian are assigned to Kennedy Middle 
School. The lead day custodian is responsible 
for:Ł Cafeteria setup/cleanupŁ Classroom cleaningŁ General grounds maintenanceŁ Restroom cleaningŁ Trash removal
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The evening custodian is 
responsible for:Ł Classroom cleaningŁ Cafeteria cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff monthly concerning maintenance and 
school safety issues.˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˝

˝
“
‘ˇ
“
ˆˇ
“
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆˆˆ˜ˆˆ˙
˘
ˆˆˆˇ˜˙
˘
ˇ˜
˘‘
’š€
ˇ˜˜
˘‡˜ˇˇˆˇ
ˇ˘˘—
˜ˇˇˆˇˇ
˘–
ˇˇˇˆˇ
ƒ
‡‡‹
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˘
†˘˛˝
˚˝˘˛˙“˘‘˙’˘š
€˙
€˝‡
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
Kennedy Middle School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Campus SupervisionSchool administration and teaching staff place 
a high priority on providing adequate adult 
supervision on campus before, during, and 
after school. As students arrive on campus 
each morning, pupil supervisors are strategically assigned to designated entrance 
areas and school grounds. Pupil supervisors monitor lunch time activity in the cafeteria and 
on the playground. At the end of the day when 
students are dismissed, the administration, 
teachers, and pupil supervisors monitor student behavior to ensure a safe and orderly 
departure. Kennedy Middle is a closed campus. During school hours, all visitors must sign in at the 
while on school grounds. School Site Safety PlanThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for Kennedy Middle in collaboration with local agencies and the 

requirements. Components of this plan 
include child abuse reporting procedures, 
procedures, disaster response procedures, 
procedures for safe arrival and departure from 
school, sexual harassment policy, and dress 
code policy. The school™s safety plan is 
reviewed, updated, and discussed with school 
staff in January 2020.



SARC Data & Internet AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about Kennedy Middle 
School and comparisons of the school to the 
district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest 
provides reports for school accountability, 
including but not limited to, CAASPP results, 
Physical Fitness results, Suspensions and 
Expulsions, Dropout & Graduation Rates, 
Public Internet Access 
LocationParents may access Kennedy Middle School™s SARC and access the internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries. The 
closest public library to Kennedy Middle School is the El Centro Public Library.
El Centro Public Library 539 W. State Street, El Centro
Phone Number: (760) 337-4565Website: www.cityofelcentro.org/library
Hours: Mon-Thurs: 9am-7pm            Fri: 9am- 5pm            Sat: 9am-1pm             Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 5
Facilities InspectionThe district™s maintenance department inspects 
Kennedy Middle on an annual basis in accordance with Education Code §17592.72(c)
(1).  Kennedy Middle uses a school site 
inspection survey to identify unsafe or hazardous conditions and facility improvement 
needs.  The most recent school inspection took 

the school inspection survey were corrected 
immediately by the district™s maintenance 

restrooms were fully functional and available for student use.Kennedy Middle School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District ExpendituresSalary & Budget ComparisonState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State 
Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar average daily attendance throughout the state. 
(Note: 2017-18 salary comparison data was the 
most recent data available at the time this 
report was published.) Expenditures Per StudentFor the 2017-18 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District spent an average of 
$12,338 of total general funds to educate each 

statements and in accordance with calculations 

in this report 1) compares the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and 
restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the District and throughout the state, 
and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries 
at the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding salaries can be found at the CDE 


facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.) ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†˘ˇ˘“˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
‘’šš€




†˘ˇ˘‡˝˙˘…
—’‘š–




“˘ˇ˘‡ƒˇ…
š’⁄‹›
−’–—š
—›–‰
€‹š—€–⁄‰

š⁄’š——⁄⁄’„›−⁄‘‰šš’−—‘—‹—‰
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
In addition to general fund state funding, El Centro Elementary School District receives state  
and federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District 
received categorical, special education, and support programs funds for:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
DisclosureThe statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the El Centro Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this 
report met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data 
available. Data to prepare the instructional materials was acquired in October 2019 and school 
facilities sections were acquired in November 2019.˜˚˜˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
€˙˘˘˛
•˘˛…
˜˘˛
†ˇ˘˛
‘
˛˘˛
•˘˘ƒ…
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
