McKinley Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
McKinley Elementary School is a special place where every child is given the opportunity to 
succeed. Staff recognizes that educating children is about helping them discover their special 
talents and skills, as well as guiding their learning to attain high academic standards. We are 
cognizant that our interactions with students many times extend beyond that of an educator/
student relationship. At times, we assume the roles of mentors and counselors who assist children 
in resolving issues that affect their emotional wellbeing.
McKinley School continuously strives to maintain a site that is clean, aesthetically pleasing, and 
safe where children can learn, play, and interact cheerfully. We highly encourage and welcome 
parental and community involvement. Research indicates that when families, educators, and 
communities work collaboratively; schools improve and students receive the high-quality education 
they need to lead productive lives.The staff at McKinley School is aware of the many challenges it will have to undertake to ensure 
that students meet the grade level standards at each grade level. Staff is committed and willing 
to work as a cohesive and focused educational team to make certain that students are provided 
with the best educational program possible.School MissionMcKinley™s mission is to:
Ł Teach a California Common Core standards-based curriculum.
Ł AVID: Prepare our students for pathway to college and career readiness.
Ł PBIS: Sustain a positive behavioral program and culture.Ł Identify the distinct needs of students.Ł Improve student achievement.Ł Encourage student and parent accountability.
Ł Collaborate and work as a team.Ł Encourage parental and community involvement.District & School DescriptionThe El Centro Elementary School District is 
located in Imperial County, and is surrounded by 
thousands of acres of California™s most 
productive farming land.  El Centro Elementary 
School District is comprised of nine elementary 
schools, two middle schools, and one home school academy which educates approximately 5,700 students in transitional kindergarten 
through eighth grade per school year.  The 
district is committed to preparing its students for 
the future and dedicated to excellence in the 
realm of academics. All programs within the 
district are founded on the principle that ﬁchildren 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘“††
˘‘’’

˘€
•
˘’‡
˘†
˘š’†
…ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

•˚ˇ„–

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙
…ˇ™ˇ
”
ˇ
˙ˆ˚

McKinley Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
McKinley Elementary School serves students 
in kindergarten through sixth grade.  During 
the 2018-19 school year,  the school had an 
enrollment of 502 students  including 12.9% 
in special education, 58.2% qualifying for 
English Language Learner support, 0.4% 
homeless youth, 1.8% foster youth, and 89% 
qualifying for free or reduced price lunch. Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP) that supports the priorities for the 
state of California.  The following components 
of this SARC address some of the State™s 
priorities:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area for the pupils they are 
teaching.Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and school facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress (CAASPP) System, which 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general 
education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
 mathematics given in grades three through 
eight and grade eleven.  Only eligible 
students may participate in the  administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items 
are aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the 
 Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    

 cognitive disabilities).Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
 technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł High school dropout ratesŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension ratesŁ Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of 
 physical education.Parent InvolvementParents are encouraged to get involved in their 
child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating in 
a decision-making group, or attending school 
events.Parents stay informed of upcoming events and 
school activities through the monthly calendar 
of events, newsletters, parent conferences, progress reports, the school website, and 
Blackboard Connect (automated telephone 
message delivery system). Contact any school 

at (760) 352-3225 for more information on how 
to become involved in your child™s learning 
environment.Opportunities to Volunteer
ChaperoneClassroom HelperFundraising Activities
Parent Teacher Association
School AssembliesCommitteesAVID
English Learner Advisory Council
 Parent Teacher Association
Positive Behavior Intervention & Support   Teams
School Site CouncilSchool Activities
ASB ActivitiesAcademic CelebrationsBack to School NightCoffee with the Principal
Field DayHalloween ParadePeace Builder Assemblies
Kindergarten Parent Training
Math CompetitionOpen HouseParenting ClassesRaising a ReaderRed Carpet CelebrationSpelling BeeStudent Recognition Assemblies
Talent Show
Curriculum & InstructionSchool LeadershipThe administrative team is comprised of the principal, who works closely with the 
leadership team, teachers, and school staff. 
Principal  Jose Ureña is responsible for the 
day-to-day operations of the school and the 
overall instructional program.  Coordinating 
efforts with the principal is the Leadership 
Team, comprised of the principal, the reading 
coach, and grade level representatives. The 
Leadership Team meets monthly throughout 
the year to discuss school operational systems and educational concerns.Principal Ureña has been in the educational 

Elementary School for his third year in the 2019-20 school year. Previous positions held 
in other schools include: classroom teacher, 
counselor, special education director, and 
principal. Principal  Ureña holds a bachelor™s 
degree in Spanish, a master™s degree in 
leadership, a master™s degree in counseling, 
a master™s degree in special education, and 
an educational specialist degree in school 
psychology. 
McKinley Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Decisions concerning selection of staff 
development activities are performed by all 
staff using tools such as teacher input and data 
analysis to determine the areas in which 
additional teacher training may enhance 
classroom instruction and increase student 
achievement levels.  McKinley Elementary 
School supports ongoing professional growth throughout the year on minimum days and 
early release days. Teachers meet in both 
grade level and department level teams to conduct data analysis to identify areas of need.During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 school years, El Centro Elementary School 
District provided districtwide staff development 
training on the following topics:2017-18 & 2018-19 Trainings:
Ł Curriculum Embedded Technology Training
Ł Next Generation Science Standards    Training
Ł Math Lesson StudiesŁ Intro to New Financial System, AED 
   Training, Technology Updates
Ł iRead Training
Ł Synergy Grade BookŁ WonderWorks Intervention Curriculum
Ł Wonders ELA/ELD Curriculum
Ł Journeys ELA/ELD CurriculumŁ StudySync ELA Curriculum
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł Co-Teaching Training
Ł Illuminate Data and Assessment
Ł Synergy Online Report CardsŁ ELPAC
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł California School DashboardŁ Dual Immersion Team Training
Ł CAASPP Training
Ł History-Social Studies FrameworkŁ Art Workshops
Ł English Learner InstituteŁ System 44 Intervention Training for Special 
   Education Teachers
Ł Read 180 Universal Intervention Training
Ł Data Teams Training
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL) Site 
   Team Training
Ł Renaissance Star Reading, Math, and Early
   Literacy Training
2019-20 Trainings:
Ł Building Positive School and Classroom    CultureŁ CPR and First Aid - PE Teachers
Ł Department Collaboration MeetingsŁ District Writing Buckets
Ł District Curriculum Guide Updates (ELA,    ELD and Math)Ł Support for New Teachers in ELA 
   Curriculums, Math Curriculums, Online    Gradebook and Report Cards, Science    KitsŁ PEAKing English language Arts and Math 
   InstructionŁ Reading and Math Intervention Program    Trainings
Specialized InstructionAll curriculum and instruction is being aligned 
to the California State Standards approved by 
the State Board of Education. The 
instructional program is structured so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to 
their learning level. Teachers use a variety of 
research-based instructional strategies and 
techniques using state-approved instructional 
materials to ensure academic success. For students whose primary language is not 
English and who have limited English 

offers programs to help them acquire English 
as quickly as possible and prepare them to 
meet the state™s academic content standards. 
All classrooms are Structured English 
Immersion (SEI) and English learners may be 
clustered during ELD instruction. Instruction 
focuses on reinforcement of class lessons, 
reading intervention, and targeted support in 
areas of need. Some students may receive English Language Development instruction as 
a supplement to their regular Language Arts 
instruction. Student provided ELD instruction 

and receive targeted instruction at their 

School™s teachers utilize the Journeys and/or 
Wonders series, state-approved reading 
intervention programs (iRead) and textbook 
adoption. English Learners are assessed 
annually using the ELPAC exam (English 

California); results are used to evaluate 
student progress, intervention programs, and 
teaching strategies.McKinley Elementary School™s special 
education program is staffed by special 
education teachers and instructional aides. 
Instruction is provided in the least restrictive 
environment based on each student™s 
Individual Education Program (IEP). Students 
have access to a comprehensive curriculum 
and are mainstreamed into the general education class with in-class support in both small group and individual settings. A portion 
of instruction may be provided in one of the 
special day classes. The IEP team meets 
annually to establish goals and objectives, 

effectiveness of the student™s plan, and make 
instructional adjustments as necessary. 
McKinley Elementary School takes advantage 
of the district™s participation in the Imperial 

Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), which 
provides a pool of professional resources and 
McKinley Elementary School provides a variety of intervention and remediation 
programs to support students™ efforts to 
achieve academic success and reach grade 
level expectations. Through data teams, using 
Interim Assessment Blocks (IAB), district 
benchmark assessments, CAASPP, and end-
of-unit exams, teachers and administrators can 
identify students who are struggling or 

standards. For those students who need extra 
help in any subject area, a Student Study Team 
pulls together school and family resources to identify and develop strategies to help students 
improve academic and/or behavioral 
performance. Intervention strategies include:Ł After School ELA & Math Tutoring
Ł After school program for migrant and English 
  Language LearnersŁ New Comers Class/Imagine LearningŁ Think Central Personal Math Trainer
Supplementary instructional materials are purchased as needed to support intervention 
programs. Classroom teachers monitor student 
performance on district benchmark 
assessments and end-of-unit tests to measure 
ongoing academic progress and adjust 
instructional needs.Enrichment ProgramsMcKinley Elementary School offers an all day 
kindergarten program, a band program to all 
fourth grade students, and a strings program 


sixth grade students. All kinder through sixth 
grade students can participate in the After 
School Education & Safety (ASES) Program 
which offers enrichment programs in science, 
visual/ performing arts, STEM, AVID, Zumba, 
yearbook, and physical education. Cheer, 
soccer, and music is offered to all students who 
would like to participate. Staff DevelopmentAll training and curriculum development activities in the El Centro Elementary School 
District are aligned to the California State 
Standards. During the 2018-19 school year, McKinley 
Elementary School held site-based professional development devoted to:Ł AVID Strategies
Ł Classroom Management & DisciplineŁ Common Core State StandardsŁ Co-Teaching (3rd Grade)
Ł Curriculum PlanningŁ Data Analysis & Data Teams
Ł English Language Arts Grade Level 
  PlanningŁ English Language Arts Program Resources
Ł iRead Training (Grades K-2)
Ł Language Arts Training
Ł Math Lesson Study (5th Grade)Ł Professional Learning CommunitiesŁ Read 180Ł SPARKS Training
Ł Student EngagementŁ System 44Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)McKinley Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł Reading Foundations Including Phonics    and Phonemic Awareness
Ł Technology Integration with District 
   Initiatives and CurriculumŁ Trauma Informed Practices
Ł Digital Badging Trainings in District
   Curriculum and STAR Assessments
Ł Reading FoundationsŁ New Social Studies CurriculumŁ Math Lesson StudiesŁ Math 180 Training
Ł Math 180, Read 180, System 44, and Do    the Math Coaching SupportŁ iRead Site Team Trainings
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Ł Co-Teaching
McKinley Elementary School offers support 
to new and veteran teachers through peer coaching and mentoring. Instructional aides are provided targeted training focused on 
teaching strategies and curriculum content. All staff are encouraged to attend professional 

support staff receive job-related training from 
department supervisors and district representatives.Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum at 
McKinley Elementary  School are aligned to 
the California State Standards. Instructional 
materials are selected from the state™s most 
recent list of standards-based materials and 
adopted by the State Board of Education. The 
District follows the State Board of Education™s 
adoption cycle for core content materials 
(English/Language Arts, math, science, and 
social science). On Tuesday, October 8, 2019, the El Centro 
Elementary School District held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have been provided to students. The Governing 
Board adopted Resolution No. 100819-3003 

§60119 (1) that textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to all students, 
including English Learners, in the District to 
the extent that each pupil has a textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 

and instructional materials were provided to each student, including English Learners, that 
are aligned to the academic content 
standards and consistent with the cycles and 
content of the curriculum frameworks in math, 
science, history-social science, and English/Language Arts, including the English 
Language Development component of an 
adopted program, and 3) each pupil enrolled 

or instructional materials that are consistent 
with the content and cycles of the curriculum frameworks adopted by the State Board for 
those subjects.In addition to core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the 

their visual/performing arts curricula. During 
the 2019-20 school year, El Centro Elementary 
School District provided each student, including 
English Learners, enrolled in a visual/
performing arts class with a textbook or 
instructional materials to use in class and to 
take home. These materials complied with the 
state™s content standards and curriculum 
frameworks.Classroom EnvironmentDiscipline & Climate for LearningMcKinley Elementary  School™s discipline 
policies are based upon a schoolwide discipline 
plan, which is used as a guide to develop 
school rules, develop behavior management 
programs, promote responsibility, promote 
respect, and minimize classroom disruptions. Teachers clearly identify and explain behavior 
expectations to their students and discuss consequences for poor or disruptive behavior 
in the classroom. McKinley Elementary implements the positive 
behavior support system (PBIS). The positive 
behavior support system provides intentional 
structures for student success through 
positive behavior expectations. Expectations:P - PreparedR - RespectfulI - IntegrityD - DependableE - Everyone Safe˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘“˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’š’€˘˘ˆ˘ˇ
˜˚˛•˙ˆˇ˘€‡…˘…—ƒ˘⁄ˇ˘
˝ˇ
ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
…ˆ›
⁄ˇ˘ˆˇ
⁄˘˘⁄ˇ˘
‰„˘˘”
…ˇˇˆ‚ˇ˘
˘™˘
ˇ
›ˆ˘–ﬁ˘˘
ﬂ˘ˆ˘
…
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
ﬂ…ˇ

Class SizeThe Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students.˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝
˛˜˝˜˛
˛˝
˙˙˝
˛˝
˛˘˝
˛˝˜˛
ˇ˝
˛˜˝
˛˛˝
˙˙˝
˙˝
˛˘˝
˛˝˜˛
ˇ˝
˛˜˝
˛˛˝
˙˙˝
˙˝˜
˛˘˝
˛˝˜
˛˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝







‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
McKinley Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


“˝˙


˝˘ˆ˝˘
šššššššššššššššššššš’˝˘
šššššššššššššššššššš€’ˆˆ•˝˛’˘˚


…—’˛
šššššššššššššššššššš˜–˚ˆˆƒ
šššššššššššššššššššš’˝˙˙⁄ˆ‹˝˘˛


ˇ˘−˙’—ˆ


˛ˆ–’˛—ˆ‹’˙’˛’

††††
˛ˆƒ›’˘−ˆ’˝˘˛ˆ›
††
šš
††
šš
˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
ˇ


˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆ
˚˝˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘
˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

˙
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
†ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ˙“˛‘’š
California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
(CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 

the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 
student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and 
performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district 
and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are 
shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that 
are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can 
be found on the California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
Student Achievement
Physical FitnessIn the spring of each year, McKinley 
Elementary School is required by the state to 


test measures each student™s ability to 

Students that either meet or exceed the 


and state results can be found at the CDE™s 
Website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
McKinley Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Professional StaffTeacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, McKinley Elementary School had 20 teachers who met all 

number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full 
credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English 
learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term 

authorization to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.Counseling & Support StaffMcKinley Elementary  School provides 

additional services and support centered on 
the whole student academically, physically, 
and mentally. The Counseling and Support 
Services table in this report illustrates the 
availability of non-instructional support staff 
to McKinley Elementary  School™s students.
Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an employee™s 
regular work load on a weekly basis. For 
example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and 
available all day every day of the week; an 
FTE of 0.5 indicates that the staff member is 
available and on campus a portion (50%) of 
the week.Facilities & SafetyThe district takes great efforts to ensure that all schools are clean, safe, and functional through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. McKinley Elementary School™s original 
facilities were built in 1956, and ongoing maintenance and campus improvements ensure 
facilities remain up to date and provide adequate space for students and staff. District 
maintenance and site custodial staff ensure that the repairs necessary to keep the school in 
good condition are completed in a timely manner. A work order process is used by school and 
district staff to communicate non-routine maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are given 
the highest priority. 
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Asbestos abatement
Ł Installation of new carpet in Rooms 1 & 3Ł Installation of new LED lighting2019-20 Campus Improvements:Ł Asbestos abatement
Ł Creation of a parent welcome center by the front entranceŁ Installation of new carpet in Rooms 10 & 13Every morning before school begins, the principal and the custodian inspect  facilities 
for safety hazards or conditions that need 
attention prior to students and staff entering 
school grounds. One day custodian and one 
evening custodian are assigned to McKinley 
Elementary School. The day custodian is 
responsible for:Ł Cafeteria setup/cleanupŁ General grounds maintenanceŁ Classroom cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningRestrooms are checked regularly throughout the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The evening custodian is 
responsible for:Ł Classroom cleaningŁ Common use area cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff daily concerning maintenance and 
school safety issues.Campus SupervisionSchool administration and teaching staff 
place a high priority on providing adequate 
adult supervision on campus before, during, 
and after school. As students arrive on 
campus each morning, the custodian, 
cafeteria staff, and student supervisors are 
strategically assigned to designated entrance 
areas, the breakfast area and the playground. 
Breakfast is served every day in the 
classroom from 8-8:10 a.m. During recess, 
teachers supervise playground activity. The 
principal and student supervisors monitor lunch time activity in the cafeteria and on the 
playground. At the end of the day when 
students are dismissed, the principal, 
teachers, and student supervisors monitor 
student behavior to ensure a safe and orderly 
departure. McKinley Elementary is a closed campus. 
During school hours, all visitors must sign in 

badges while on school grounds. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˚˝˙
“˘˛˝
‘˘†ˇ˝˚˙’˚˝˘˛
š˙˚˝˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆˇˆˇ˜˙ˆˆ˙
˘
˜˙ˆˇ˜˙
˘
˜ˇˇ
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡ˇˇˇˆˇ
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˆˇˇ
˘–
˜ˇˇˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
⁄

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙

˝



˝
˝˜
˜
˝˜
ˇ
“
ˆ†’š
ˇ
€

“
˝ˆ•˝ˇˇ‡˝
˝ˆˇ
˝˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
McKinley Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
School Site Safety PlanThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for McKinley Elementary in 


dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and 
departure from school, sexual harassment policy, and dress code policy. The school™s safety 
plan is reviewed, updated, and discussed with school staff in October 2019.
Facilities InspectionThe district™s maintenance department inspects McKinley Elementary on an annual basis in 
accordance with Education Code §17592.72(c)(1).  McKinley Elementary uses a school site 
inspection survey to identify unsafe or hazardous conditions and facility improvement needs.  

inspection survey were corrected immediately by the district™s maintenance department. During 
SARC Data & Internet AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about McKinley 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
statistics. Public Internet Access 
LocationParents may access McKinley Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries. The 
closest public library to McKinley Elementary 
School is the El Centro Public Library.
El Centro Public Library 539 W. State Street, El Centro
Phone Number: (760) 337-4565Website: http://www.cityofelcentro.org/library
Hours: Mon-Thurs: 9am-7pm            Fri: 9am- 5pm            Sat: 9am-1pm            Sun: Closed  Number of Computers Available: 5



McKinley Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District ExpendituresSalary & Budget ComparisonState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the 
general public. For comparison purposes, the 
State Department of Education has provided 
average salary data from school districts having similar average daily attendance 
throughout the state. (Note: 2017-18 salary 
comparison data was the most recent data 
available at the time this report was published.) 
Expenditures Per StudentFor the 2017-18 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District spent an average of $12,338 of total general funds to educate 
each student (based on 2017-18 audited 

The table in this report 1) compares the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) 
and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the District and throughout the state, 
and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries 
at the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding salaries can be found at the CDE 


facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.) ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ˜˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
†˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†“˘ˇ˘‘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
’š
•
•
•
•
“˘ˇ˘…˝˙˘—
–š’ƒ⁄
•
•
•
•
‘˘ˇ˘…‹ˇ—
ƒ⁄’
ƒš›–’
−‰„
––”–„
†
−”š›⁄’⁄⁄š€”ƒ–‰€„’’šƒ–−––−„
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
In addition to general fund state funding, El Centro Elementary School District receives state  
and federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District 
received categorical, special education, and support programs funds for:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
DisclosureThe statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the El Centro Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this 
report met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data 
available. Data to prepare the instructional materials was acquired in October 2019 and 
school facilities sections were acquired in November 2019.˜˚˜˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
€˙˘˘˛
•˘˛…
˜˘˛
†ˇ˘˛
‘
˛˘˛
•˘˘ƒ…
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
