De Anza Magnet School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
Each year the staff of De Anza Magnet School challenges its students to explore the world of 
learning in all its facets and to open new, exciting pathways for themselves.  Each year we focus 
on improving the many successes of our students by maintaining the excellent programs already 
in place and by developing new programs to meet the needs of our students.  We hope that this 
annual report will provide you with information on what De Anza Magnet School is doing to provide 
for the future of your children.  We invite your comments, not only on this report, but throughout 
the year.
School Vision
De Anza Magnet School is committed to working collaboratively to increase student learning with 

learning in students in order to promote lifetime learners and productive citizens.   As we move 
into the future, our students will be equipped to utilize technology as a learning tool.De Anza Magnet School will develop a school culture to include:  
Ł   A sense of belonging
 Ł   Collaborative decision making Ł   Building leadership capacity in students, parents, and staff
 Ł   High expectations for all, by all Ł   Character of caringDe Anza Magnet School will enhance student learning by:
 Ł   Providing project-based learning experiences Ł   Providing enrichment opportunities tied to science, math, and technology Ł   Preparing students for a career in science, math, engineering and/or technologySchool MissionDe Anza Magnet School is committed to increasing academic excellence and building character 
in all students. Our efforts to accomplish the mission include: 
Providing a safe school environment that is conducive to learning.Providing an atmosphere which fosters high self-esteem, positive attitudes, tolerance and an 
acceptance of diversity, social responsibility, and an ethos of caring. 

such as Discipline, Leadership, Problem Solving Team, Social Fund, English Language Advisory, 
and School Site Council.
A California Distinguished School
A 2009 California Business for 
 Excellence Award Recipient (Honor Roll)
Designated as a ﬁSchool to Watchﬂ
De Anza Magnet School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Promoting home/school cooperation and 
support by providing parents an opportunity to 
participate in school activities, and by 
maintaining frequent home/school 
communications.Building community partnerships to enhance 
the student learning experience through the 
use of mentors with expertise in various 
disciplines. Becoming Professional Learning Communities 
committed to teacher collaboration, data 
analysis, monitoring student progress and 
appropriate placement of students in 
intervention and/or enrichment based on Supporting teachers and support staff by 
provided professional development and 
instructional coaching.District & School DescriptionThe El Centro Elementary School District is 

by thousands of acres of California™s most 
productive farming land.  El Centro Elementary 
School District is comprised of nine elementary 
schools, two middle schools, and one home school academy which educates approximately 5,700 students in transitional kindergarten through eighth grade per school year.  The district is committed to preparing its 
students for the future and dedicated to excellence in the realm of academics. All 
programs within the district are founded on the 
De Anza Magnet School serves students in 
kindergarten through eighth grade.  During the 
2018-19 school year,  the school had an 
enrollment of 491 students  including 9.4% in 
special education, 31.2% qualifying for English 
Language Learner support, 0.8% foster youth, 
and 70.5% qualifying for free or reduced price 
lunch. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘“†‘
˘’†’

˘š
€
˘‘
˘†š†
˘š‘
•ˇˇ˘
…˚˙
˘–
ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

—ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚—ˇ
‰˙

•
€˚ˇ„—

‘‡“˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
ˇ˘
”ˇ
‚˙
•ˇ™ˇ
”
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP) that supports the priorities for the state 
of California.  The following components of this 
SARC address some of the State™s priorities
:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area for the pupils they are teaching.Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and school facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress (CAASPP) System, which includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
 mathematics given in grades three through eight and grade eleven.  Only 
eligible students may participate in the 
 administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items 
are aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the 
 Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    

 cognitive disabilities).Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to 
the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
technical education sequences or 
programs of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to 
the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
 technical education sequences or 
programs of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł High school dropout ratesŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension ratesŁ Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of 
safetyState Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of 
 physical education.De Anza Magnet School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
are struggling or performing below state 
students who need extra help in any subject 
area, a Student Success Team pulls together 
school and family resources to identify and develop strategies to help students improve 
academic and/or behavioral performance. 

instructional intervention.Supplementary instructional materials are 
purchased as needed to support intervention 
programs. Classroom teachers monitor student performance on district benchmark 
assessments and end-of-unit tests to 
measure ongoing academic progress and adjust instructional needs.Enrichment ProgramsDe Anza Magnet School offers a band 
program to all fourth through eighth grade 

through eighth grade students who wish to participate.   What makes us a magnet 
school?  De Anza Magnet School focuses on 
science, math, and technology.  Students are 
exposed to project-based science activities 
in which they learn about renewable energy.    
Staff DevelopmentAll training and curriculum development 
activities in the El Centro Elementary School 
District are aligned to the California State 
Standards. During the 2018-19 school year, De Anza 
Magnet School held site-based professional 
development devoted to:
Ł Collaboration & OrganizationŁ Common Core State StandardsŁ Data Analysis
Ł English Language Arts Grade Level
  PlanningŁ English Language Arts Program Resources
Ł GO! Math Training
Ł Google Apps for Educators
Ł Math Lesson StudiesŁ Pitsco Missions & ExpeditionsŁ School BusinessŁ Standards Plus Training
Ł Technology
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Decisions concerning selection of staff 
development activities are performed by all 
staff using tools such as teacher input and 
data analysis to determine the areas in which 
additional teacher training may enhance 
classroom instruction and increase student 
achievement levels.  De Anza Magnet School 
supports ongoing professional growth 
throughout the year. Teachers meet in both 
grade level and department level teams to conduct data analysis to identify areas of 
need.Parent InvolvementParents are encouraged to get involved in 
their child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating in 
a decision-making group, or attending school 
events.Parents stay informed of upcoming events 

school marquee, the school website, monthly 

communication apps,and Blackboard Connect (automated telephone message 

staff member at (760) 352-9811 for more 
information on how to become involved in 
your child™s learning environment.
Opportunities to Volunteer
Classroom HelperFundraising Activities
Library Helper Schoolwide Events Speakers in ClassroomsCommitteesEnglish Learner Advisory Council
 Parent Teacher Association
School Site Council
8th Grade Parent GroupSchool Activities

 Family ActivitiesLibrary Family Events Open House
Science FairSocial Studies Re-enactmentsCurriculum & InstructionSchool LeadershipThe administrative team is comprised of the 
principal and vice principal, who work closely 
with the leadership team, teachers, and 
school staff. Principal  Maria Ambriz is 
responsible for the day-to-day operations of 
the school and the overall instructional program.  Coordinating efforts with the 
principal is the Leadership Team, comprised 
of the principal, vice principal, and teacher 
representatives. The Leadership Team meets 
monthly throughout the year to discuss 
school operational systems and educational 
concerns.Specialized InstructionAll curriculum and instruction is being aligned 
to the California State Standards approved by 
the State Board of Education. The instructional 
program is structured so that all students receive instruction appropriate to their learning 
level. Teachers use a variety of research-based 
instructional strategies and techniques using state-approved instructional materials to ensure 
academic success. For students whose primary language is not 
English and who have limited English 

programs to help them acquire English as quickly as possible and prepare them to meet 
the state™s academic content standards. All 



reinforcement of class lessons, reading 
intervention, and targeted support in areas of 
need. Some students may receive English Language Development instruction as a 
supplement to their regular Language Arts 
instruction. ELD instruction is provided in the 
classroom by the teacher. De Anza Magnet 



Harcourt: StudySync (7-8) series, state-approved reading intervention programs and 
textbook adoption. English Learners are 
assessed annually using the ELPAC exam 

California); results are used to evaluate student 
progress, intervention programs, and teaching 
strategies.De Anza Magnet School™s special education 
program is staffed by a special education 

is provided in the least restrictive environment 


comprehensive curriculum and are mainstreamed into the general education class 
with small group and individualized instruction 
in the resource room. A portion of instruction 
may be provided in the special day class. The 


evaluate the effectiveness of the student™s plan, 
and make instructional adjustments as 
necessary. De Anza Magnet School takes 
advantage of the district™s participation in the 

Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), which 
provides a pool of professional resources and 
De Anza Magnet School provides a variety of 
intervention and remediation programs to 
support students™ efforts to achieve academic 
success and reach grade level expectations. 

as, district benchmark assessments teachers 
and administrators can identify students who 
De Anza Magnet School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 
school years, El Centro Elementary School 
District provided districtwide professional 
development trainings on the following:2017-18 & 2018-19 Trainings:
Ł Curriculum Embedded Technology Training
   Training
Ł Math Lesson Studies
   Training, Technology Updates
Ł iRead Training
Ł Synergy Grade Book
Ł Wonders ELA/ELD Curriculum
Ł Journeys ELA/ELD CurriculumŁ StudySync ELA Curriculum
Ł Co-Teaching Training

Ł Synergy Online Report CardsŁ ELPAC

Ł California School Dashboard
Ł CAASPP Training
Ł History-Social Studies FrameworkŁ Art Workshops

   Education Teachers

Ł Data Teams Training
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL) Site 
   Team Training
Ł Renaissance Star Reading, Math, and Early
   Literacy Training
2019-20 Trainings:
Ł Building Positive School and Classroom    CultureŁ CPR and First Aid - PE Teachers
Ł Department Collaboration MeetingsŁ District Writing Buckets
Ł District Curriculum Guide Updates (ELA,    ELD and Math)
   Curriculums, Math Curriculums, Online    Gradebook and Report Cards, Science    KitsŁ PEAKing English language Arts and Math 
    Trainings
   and Phonemic Awareness

 
Ł Digital Badging Trainings in District
   Curriculum and STAR Assessments
Ł Reading FoundationsŁ Math Lesson StudiesŁ Math 180 Training
Ł Math 180, Read 180, System 44, and Do    the Math Coaching SupportŁ iRead Site Team Trainings

Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Ł Co-Teaching
De Anza Magnet School offers support to new 
and veteran teachers through peer coaching 

targeted training focused on teaching strategies 
and curriculum content. All staff are encouraged 
to attend professional workshops and 

job-related training from department 
supervisors and district representatives.Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum at De 
Anza Magnet  School are aligned to the 

materials are selected from the state™s most 
recent list of standards-based materials and 
adopted by the State Board of Education. The 
District follows the State Board of Education™s 
adoption cycle for core content materials 
(English/Language Arts, math, science, and 
social science). On Tuesday, October 8, 2019, the El Centro 
Elementary School District held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks 
and instructional materials have been provided 
to students. The Governing Board adopted 

required by Education Code §60119 (1) that 
textbooks and instructional materials were provided to all students, including English 
Learners, in the District to the extent that each 
pupil has a textbook or instructional materials, 
or both, to use in class and to take home, and 
materials were provided to each student, 
including English Learners, that are aligned to 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘“˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’š’€˘˘ˆ˘ˇ
˜˚˛•˙ˆˇ˘€‡…˘…—ƒ˘⁄ˇ˘
˝ˇ
ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
…ˆ›
⁄ˇ˘ˆˇ
⁄˘˘⁄ˇ˘
‰„˘˘”
…ˇˇˆ‚ˇ˘
˘™˘
ˇ
›ˆ˘–ﬁ˘˘
ﬂ˘ˆ˘
…
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
ﬂ…ˇ

the academic content standards and 
consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks in math, science, 
history-social science, and English/Language 
Arts, including the English Language 
Development component of an adopted 
program, and 3) each pupil enrolled in a 

instructional materials that are consistent 
with the content and cycles of the curriculum 
frameworks adopted by the State Board for 
those subjects.
required to disclose in their SARCs the 

their visual/performing arts curricula. During 
the 2019-20 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District provided each 
student, including English Learners, enrolled 
in a visual/performing arts class with a 
textbook or instructional materials to use in 
class and to take home. These materials 
complied with the state™s content standards 
and curriculum frameworks.De Anza Magnet School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••‡ˆˆ—˝˛


–˛

••

••
˜⁄˚ˆˆ‹
••••••••••••••••••••˝˙˙›ˆ−˝˘˛


ˇƒˆ


˛ˆ⁄˛ƒˆ−˛


˘˛ˆ‹˘„ˆ„˘˛ˆ
••••••••••••••••••••˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ
˚˘˚ˇˇ˚
˚˘˝˝˘ˇ“
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆ
˚˝˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘
˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ

’š˚
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ



The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable 
subgroup. Results are shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking 
the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be 
found on the California Department of 
Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/
ca/.Physical Fitness
School is required by the state to administer 


measures each student™s ability to complete 

that either meet or exceed the standards in 

Comparative district and state results can be 
found at the CDE™s Website www.cde.ca.gov/
ta/tg/pf/. Student Achievement
California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
(CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 

the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 
student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and 
performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). ˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝


˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ
˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
De Anza Magnet School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Classroom EnvironmentClass SizeThe Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by 
grade level, the average class size, and the number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students.  Discipline & Climate for LearningDe Anza Magnet  School™s discipline policies 
are based upon a schoolwide discipline plan, 
which is used as a guide to develop school 
rules, develop behavior management 
programs, promote responsibility, promote 
respect, and minimize classroom disruptions. 
Teachers clearly identify and explain behavior 
expectations to their students and discuss 
consequences for poor or disruptive behavior 
in the classroom. De Anza Magnet  School 
employs a progressive approach in managing 
students who make poor choices in behavior, 
do not follow school rules, or are disruptive in 
the classroom.Professional StaffTeacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, De Anza Magnet School had 20 teachers who met all credential 

teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total 
teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to 

subject area, student group, etc.Counseling & Support StaffDe Anza Magnet  School provides professional, 

services and support centered on the whole student academically, physically, and mentally. 
The Counseling and Support Services table in 
this report illustrates the availability of non-
instructional support staff to De Anza Magnet  
School™s students.
Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an employee™s 
regular work load on a weekly basis. For example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and 
available all day every day of the week; an FTE 
of 0.5 indicates that the staff member is 
available and on campus a portion (50%) of the 
week. Facilities & SafetyThe district takes great efforts to ensure that all schools are clean, safe, and functional through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. De Anza Magnet School™s original facilities 
were built in 1969, and ongoing maintenance and campus improvements ensure facilities remain 
up to date and provide adequate space for students and staff. 
District maintenance and site custodial staff ensure that the repairs necessary to keep the school 
in good condition are completed in a timely manner. A work order process is used by school and 
district staff to communicate non-routine maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are given 

completed:Ł Add cement walkway between the building 
   and playground˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝
˛˜˝
˛˛˝
˛˙˝˛
˘˝˜
˜˝
˜˝
˜˜
ˇ˝
˛˜˝
˛˛˝
˛˙˝
˛˘˝˜
˜˝
˜˝
˛ˇ˝
˛˜˝
˛˛˝
˛˙˝
˛˘˝˜˛
˝
˜˝
˜˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ



†
“

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
˜š
˛˝˜š˚
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛


˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆ˜ˆˇˆˆˆˆ˙
˘
ˆ˜ˆˇ˜˚
˘
ˇˇ
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡ˇˇˇˆˇ
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˆˇˇ
˘–
ˆˆˇˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
ƒ⁄

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˝

ˇ
“
‘

ˆš˝
“
ˆš˝˘ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
ˇ


•˜˝˚˙˝ˆˇ˝˝
˝
De Anza Magnet School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł Addition of cement under the shade 
   structure for ADA

Ł Remodel Boys™ and Girls™ restrooms

 Ł Abatement in Boys™ and Girls™ and Mens™ 
   and Women™s restrooms
Every morning before school begins, the 
custodian inspects the  facilities for safety 
hazards or other conditions that need attention 
prior to students and staff entering school 
grounds. Two custodians are assigned to De 
Anza Magnet School. The day custodians are 
responsible for:Ł Cafeteria setup/cleanupŁ Lunch area setup/cleanupŁ Restroom cleaningŁ Trash removal
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout 
the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The custodial manager 
and the principal communicate with the 
custodial staff daily concerning maintenance 
and school safety issues.Campus SupervisionSchool administration and teaching staff place 
a high priority on providing adequate adult 
supervision on campus before, during, and 
after school. As students arrive on campus 
each morning, the principal, vice principal, 
and pupil supervisors are strategically assigned to designated entrance areas and 
the playground. During recess, the principal, vice principal, designated teachers, and pupil 
supervisors supervise playground activity. 
Pupil supervisors monitor lunch time activity in the cafeteria and on the playground. At the 
end of the day when students are dismissed, 
the vice principal, teachers and pupil supervisors monitor student behavior to 
ensure a safe and orderly departure. De Anza Magnet is a closed campus. During 
school hours, all visitors must sign in at the 

while on school grounds. 


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˚˝˘˛
˚˝˙˝
“˙‘˝
’˘˙˛˝˙
š˙˚˝˘
•˙‡˚˛…—˚˝˙–ƒ˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
School Site Safety PlanThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for De Anza Magnet in 
collaboration with local agencies and the district 

Components of this plan include child abuse 

dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response 
procedures, procedures for safe arrival and departure from school, sexual harassment 
policy, and dress code policy. The school™s 
safety plan is reviewed and updated in January 
2019, and discussed with school staff in August 
2019 and throughout the year.
Facilities InspectionThe district™s maintenance department inspects 
De Anza Magnet on an annual basis in 
accordance with Education Code §17592.72(c)(1).  De Anza Magnet uses a school site 
inspection survey to identify unsafe or 
hazardous conditions and facility improvement 
needs.  The most recent school inspection took 

school inspection survey were corrected 
immediately by the district™s maintenance 

restrooms were fully functional and available for 
student use.SARC Data & Internet AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about De Anza Magnet 
School and comparisons of the school to the 
district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest 
provides reports for school accountability, 
including but not limited to, CAASPP results, 
Physical Fitness results, Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & Graduation Rates, Public Internet Access 
LocationParents may access De Anza Magnet 
School™s SARC and access the internet at any 
of the county™s public libraries. The closest 
public library to De Anza Magnet School is the 
El Centro Public Library.
El Centro Public Library 539 W. State Street, El Centro
Website: www.cityofelcentro.org/library
Hours: Mon-Thurs: 9am-7pm            Fri: 9am- 5pm             Sat & Sun: Closed 
De Anza Magnet School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District ExpendituresSalary & Budget ComparisonState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the 
general public. For comparison purposes, the 
State Department of Education has provided 
average salary data from school districts 
having similar average daily attendance 

comparison data was the most recent data 
available at the time this report was 
published.) Expenditures Per StudentFor the 2017-18 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District spent an average 
of $12,338 of total general funds to educate 
each student (based on 2017-18 audited 

school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources 
with other schools in the District and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher 
salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ 

educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, 
and certain other expenditures.) 
and federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District 
received categorical, special education, and support programs funds for:DisclosureThe statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the El Centro Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this 
report met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data 
available. Data to prepare the instructional materials was acquired in October 2019 and 
˜˚˜˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
€˙˘˘˛
•˘˛…
˜˘˛
†ˇ˘˛
‘
˛˘˛
•˘˘ƒ…
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
˘ˇ˘†˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
“‘’š€




˘ˇ˘‡˝˙˘…
—–—



†˘ˇ˘‡ƒˇ…
š‘–⁄’
‹‘›⁄š
⁄⁄“−
–‰š⁄’“€−

“‹‘—’€““‘’€‹—“−šš‘‹⁄—⁄⁄€−
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension Contributions
