Desert Garden Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
Desert Garden is a very special place to learn! The faculty and staff work very hard to ensure 
that our students will enjoy a successful, exciting experience at our school.  Our goal is to create 
a positive school climate that maximizes instructional time for student learning, while developing 
self-discipline and leadership skills in our students. We are very well aware that this cannot be 
possible without parental support.  Therefore, we highly encourage parents to partner with us in 
their child™s education. We truly value, appreciate, and seek out their involvement and collaboration 
for the success of their child.   Let™s begin our journey to success!
Cecilia HerazPrincipalDesert GardenSchool MissionDesert Garden School staff members believe that all children can learn. Education is child 
centered and focuses on preparing all students to be competent, responsible, and contributing 
members of our society.
There is a schoolwide commitment to high expectations and excellence. Students receive a strong 
foundation in basic skills and there is an emphasis on problem solving, critical thinking and higher 
level thinking skills throughout the curriculum.District & School DescriptionThe El Centro Elementary School District is located in Imperial County, and is surrounded by 
thousands of acres of California™s most 
productive farming land.  El Centro Elementary School District is comprised of nine elementary schools, two middle schools, and one home 
school academy which educates approximately 5,700 students in transitional kindergarten 
through eighth grade per school year.  The 
district is committed to preparing its students for 
the future and dedicated to excellence in the 
realm of academics. All programs within the 
district are founded on the principle that ﬁchildren 
Desert Garden Elementary School serves students in kindergarten through sixth grade.  
During the 2018-19 school year,  the school had 
an enrollment of 442 students  including 10.4% 
in special education, 52.3% qualifying for English 
Language Learner support, 1.6% homeless 
youth, 1.6% foster youth, and 81.7% qualifying for free or reduced price lunch. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘“‘
˘’““

˘‘“†

˘•†•
˘“€“
˘†€š
‡ˇˇ
…˚˙

–ˇƒ˙ˇ⁄
˜‹ˇ
›

—ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ–˚—ˇ
‰˙

‡

˚ˇ„—

••’˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙

‡ˇ”ˇ
‚
‚ˇ
™˙

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
Desert Garden Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a 
three-year Local Control and Accountability 
Plan (LCAP) that supports the priorities 
for the state of California.  The following 
components of this SARC address some 
of the State priorities:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area for the pupils they are 
teaching.Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned instructional materials; and school facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System, which includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general 
education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
 mathematics given in grades three through 
eight and grade eleven.  Only eligible 
students may participate in the 
 administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items 
are aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the 
 Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    

 cognitive disabilities).Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to 
the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
technical education sequences or 
programs of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
 technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł High school dropout ratesŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension ratesŁ Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of 
 physical education.Parent InvolvementParents are encouraged to get involved in their 
child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating in 
a decision-making group, or attending school 
events.Parents stay informed of upcoming events and 

parent conferences, progress reports, the school marquee, the school website, Facebook 
and Blackboard Connect (automated 
telephone message delivery system). Contact 
2051 for more information on how to become 
involved in your child™s education.
Opportunities to Volunteer
Chaperone Field Trips
Classroom HelperFundraising Activities
Room ParentCommitteesEnglish Learner Advisory Council
 Parent Teacher Association
School Site CouncilSchool Activities
Accelerated Reader Ice Cream Social      (Quarterly)Anti Bullying MonthBack to School Night Family Nights Field DayHalloween Carnival & Parade Movie NightMedal CeremonyRead Across America Week
Red Ribbon Week
Student PerformancesStudent Recognition Assemblies
Curriculum & InstructionSchool LeadershipThe administrative team is comprised of the principal, who works closely with the 
teachers, and school staff. Principal  Cecilia 
Heraz is responsible for the day-to-day 
operations of the school and the overall 
instructional program. Staff meet weekly 
throughout the year to discuss instructional 
programs, staff development needs, evaluate 
the effectiveness of instruction programs and 
implement strategies that increase 

and student learning needs, and to focus on 
school operations.Principal Heraz has been in the educational 


2019-20). Previous positions held in other 
schools include: classroom teacher, reading 
intervention teacher, academic coach, and 
the Director of Curriculum and Instruction at 
Curriculum Coordinator for the Imperial 

holds a bachelor™s degree in Psychology and 
Social Behavior, a master™s degree in 
Educational Leadership, and a Professional 
Administrative Services credential.Specialized InstructionAll curriculum and instruction is being aligned 
to the California State Standards approved 
by the State Board of Education. The 
instructional program is structured so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their learning level. Teachers use a variety of 
research-based instructional strategies and 
techniques using state-approved instructional 
materials to ensure academic success. For students whose primary language is not 
English and who have limited English 

School offers programs to help them acquire 
English as quickly as possible and prepare 
them to meet the state™s academic content 
standards. All classrooms are Structured 
English Immersion (SEI) and English learners 
may be clustered during ELD instruction. Instruction focuses on reinforcement of class 
lessons, reading intervention, and targeted Desert Garden Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 school years, El Centro Elementary School 
District provided districtwide professional 
development trainings on the following:2017-18 & 2018-19 Trainings:
Ł Curriculum Embedded Technology Training
Ł Next Generation Science Standards    Training
Ł Math Lesson StudiesŁ Intro to New Financial System, AED 
   Training, Technology Updates
Ł iRead Training
Ł Synergy Grade BookŁ WonderWorks Intervention Curriculum
Ł Wonders ELA/ELD Curriculum
Ł Journeys ELA/ELD CurriculumŁ StudySync ELA Curriculum
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł Co-Teaching Training
Ł Illuminate Data and Assessment
Ł Synergy Online Report CardsŁ ELPAC
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł California School DashboardŁ Dual Immersion Team Training
Ł CAASPP Training
Ł History-Social Studies FrameworkŁ Art Workshops
Ł English Learner InstituteŁ System 44 Intervention Training for Special 
   Education Teachers
Ł Read 180 Universal Intervention Training
Ł Data Teams Training
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL) Site 
   Team Training
Ł Renaissance Star Reading, Math, and Early   Literacy Training
2019-20 Trainings:
Ł Building Positive School and Classroom    CultureŁ CPR and First Aid - PE Teachers
Ł Department Collaboration MeetingsŁ District Writing Buckets
Ł District Curriculum Guide Updates (ELA,    ELD and Math)Ł Support for New Teachers in ELA 
   Curriculums, Math Curriculums, Online    Gradebook and Report Cards, Science    KitsŁ PEAKing English language Arts and Math 
   InstructionŁ Reading and Math Intervention Program    Trainings
Ł Reading Foundations Including Phonics    and Phonemic Awareness
Ł Technology Integration with District 
   Initiatives and CurriculumŁ Trauma Informed Practices
Ł Digital Badging Trainings in District
   Curriculum and STAR Assessments
Ł Reading FoundationsŁ New Social Studies CurriculumŁ Math Lesson StudiesŁ Math 180 Training
Ł Math 180, Read 180, System 44, and Do    the Math Coaching Supportsupport in areas of need. Some students may 
receive English Language Development instruction as a supplement to their regular 
Language Arts instruction. ELD instruction is 
provided in the classrooms by the teachers. 
Desert Garden Elementary™s teachers utilize 


state-approved reading intervention programs 
and textbook adoption. English Learners are 
assessed annually using the ELPAC exam 

for California); results are used to evaluate 
student progress, intervention programs, and 
teaching strategies.Desert Garden Elementary School™s special 
education program is staffed by a team of 
specialists.  Two special education teachers, 
and two instructional aides manage the 
Special Day Class; one resource specialist 
teacher and an instructional aide provide 
support in the general education classroom 
and  in the resource room based upon 
students™ academic needs. Instruction is 
provided in the least restrictive environment 
based on each student™s Individual Education 
Plan (IEP). Students have access to a comprehensive curriculum and are 
mainstreamed into the general education 
class with small group and individualized instruction in the resource room. A portion of 
instruction may be provided in the special day 
class. The IEP team meets annually to 

academic instruction, evaluate the 
effectiveness of the student™s plan, and make 
instructional adjustments as necessary. 
Desert Garden Elementary School takes advantage of the district™s participation in the 

Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), which 
provides a pool of professional resources and 
Desert Garden Elementary School provides a 
variety of intervention and remediation 
programs to support students™ efforts to 
achieve academic success and reach grade level expectations. Using Interim Assessment 
Blocks (IAB), as well as, district benchmark assessments, test results, and end-of-unit exams, teachers and administrators can 
identify students who are struggling or 

standards. For those students who need extra 
help in any subject area, a Student Study Team pulls together school and family 
resources to identify and develop strategies 
to help students improve academic and/or 
behavioral performance. Intervention 
strategies include:Ł MobyMax Adaptive Program
Ł iRead Program (K-2)Ł Journeys Program (K-2)Ł Read 180 Ł Imagine LearningŁ Wonders Program (3-6)
Supplementary instructional materials are 
purchased as needed to support intervention 
programs. Classroom teachers monitor student 
performance on district benchmark assessments, daily classwork, homework, and end-of-unit tests to measure ongoing academic 
progress and adjust instructional needs.Enrichment ProgramsDesert Garden Elementary School offers an all 
day kindergarten program, a band program to 
all fourth through sixth grade students, and a 
strings program to all fourth through sixth grade 
students who wish to participate. All K-6 
students may participate in the After School 
Education & Safety (ASES) Program which 
offers enrichment programs in science, visual 
arts, performing arts, and physical education. 
Students in grades K-6 may participate in 

arts, photography (grades 4-6), newspaper 
class called DG Press, and animation drawing. All students participate in at least one performing 
arts program annually.
Staff DevelopmentAll training and curriculum development 
activities in the El Centro Elementary School 
District are aligned to the California State 
Standards. During the 2018-19 school year, Desert Garden 
Elementary School held site-based professional  
development devoted to:Ł AVID Schoolwide
Ł Classroom ManagementŁ English Language Arts Grade Level
Ł English Language Arts Program Resources 
Ł English Language Development    InstructionŁ Go Math! Data Teams
Ł Intervention StrategiesŁ Instructional StrategiesŁ Math Lesson StudiesŁ Non-Violent Crisis Prevention Intervention
Ł Positive Behavioral Intervention & Support   (PBIS)Ł Professional Learning CommunitiesŁ School BusinessŁ The New State Standards
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Decisions concerning selection of staff 
development activities are performed by the 
principal, grade level representatives, and the 
reading coach using tools such as teacher input, 
state assessment results, data analysis, and 
teacher input to determine the areas in which 
additional teacher training may enhance 
classroom instruction and increase student achievement levels.  Desert Garden Elementary 
School supports ongoing professional growth 
throughout the year. Teachers meet in both 
grade level and department level teams to conduct data analysis to identify areas of need.
Desert Garden Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł iRead Site Team Trainings
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Ł Co-Teaching
Desert Garden Elementary School offers 
support to new and veteran teachers through peer coaching and mentoring. Instructional aides are provided targeted training focused 
on teaching strategies and curriculum content. 
All staff are encouraged to attend professional 

support staff receive job-related training from 
department supervisors and district representatives.Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum at 
Desert Garden Elementary  School are 
aligned to the California State Standards. 
Instructional materials are selected from the state™s most recent list of standards-based 
materials and adopted by the State Board of 
Education. The District follows the State 
Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core 
content materials (English/Language Arts, 
math, science, and social science). On Tuesday, October 8, 2019, the El Centro 
Elementary School District held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks 
and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Governing Board 
adopted Resolution No. 100819-3003 which 

Classroom EnvironmentClass SizeThe Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students.Discipline & Climate for LearningDesert Garden Elementary  School™s 
discipline policies are based upon a 
schoolwide discipline plan, which is used as 
a guide to develop school expectations, develop behavior management programs, 
promote responsibility, promote respect, and 
minimize classroom disruptions. Teachers 
clearly identify and explain behavior 
expectations to their students and discuss 
consequences for poor or disruptive behavior 
in the classroom. Desert Garden Elementary  
School employs a progressive approach in managing students who make poor choices 
in behavior, do not follow school expectations, 
or are disruptive in the classroom.  ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ






˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘“˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’š’€˘˘ˆ˘ˇ
˜˚˛•˙ˆˇ˘€‡…˘…—ƒ˘⁄ˇ˘
˝ˇ
ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
…ˆ›
⁄ˇ˘ˆˇ
⁄˘˘⁄ˇ˘
‰„˘˘”
…ˇˇˆ‚ˇ˘
˘™˘
ˇ
›ˆ˘–ﬁ˘˘
ﬂ˘ˆ˘
…
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
ﬂ…ˇ

§60119 (1) that textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to all students, 
including English Learners, in the District to the 
extent that each pupil has a textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 
and instructional materials were provided to each student, including English Learners, that 
are aligned to the academic content standards 
and consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks in math, science, 
history-social science, and English/Language 
Arts, including the English Language 
Development component of an adopted 
program, and 3) each pupil enrolled in a 

instructional materials that are consistent with 
the content and cycles of the curriculum frameworks adopted by the State Board for 
those subjects.In addition to core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the 

their visual/performing arts curricula. During 
the 2019-20 school year, El Centro Elementary 
School District provided each student, including English Learners, enrolled in a visual/
performing arts class with a textbook or 
instructional materials to use in class and to take home. These materials complied with the 
state™s content standards and curriculum 
frameworks.˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝
˛˜˝
˛˛˝
˛˙˝
˛˝
˛˘˝
˛˝˜
˜ˇ˝
˙˜˝
˛˛˝
˛˙˝
˛˝
˛˘˝
˛˝˜˛
ˇ˝
˙˜˝
˛˛˝
˛˙˝
˛˝
˛˘˝
˛˝˜˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝







‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
Desert Garden Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••˝˘ˆ‡˘˘ˆ˚š˘ˆ˝˛
••••••••••••••••••••˘
••••••••••••••••••••—ˆˆƒ˝˛


⁄˛
••••••••••••˜›˚ˆˆ−
••••••••••••˝˙˙‰ˆ„˝˘˛



ˇ‹ˆ


˛ˆ›˛‹ˆ„˛


˘˛ˆ−˘”ˆ”˘˛ˆ
••••••••••••˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ

ˆ
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

ˆˇ˛˚˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆ
˚˝˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘
˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
†ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ˙˛“‘’
The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the 
school™s overall score in each applicable 
subgroup. Results are shown only for 
subgroups with ten students or more taking 
the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup 
criteria. More information on CAASPP can be 
found on the California Department of 
Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/
ca/.Physical FitnessIn the spring of each year, Desert Garden 
Elementary School is required by the state to 


test measures each student™s ability to 

Students that either meet or exceed the 



and state results can be found at the CDE™s 
website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
Student Achievement
 California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
(CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 

the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 
student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and 
performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). Desert Garden Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Professional StaffTeacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, Desert Garden Elementary School had 17 teachers who met 

number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full 
credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English 
learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term 

to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.Counseling & Support StaffDesert Garden Elementary  School provides 
provide additional services and support 
centered on the whole student academically, 
physically, and mentally. The Counseling and 
Support Services table in this report illustrates 
the availability of non-instructional support 
staff to Desert Garden Elementary  School™s 
students.Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an employee™s 
regular work load on a weekly basis. For example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and 
available all day every day of the week; an 
FTE of 0.5 indicates that the staff member is 
available and on campus a portion (50%) of 
the week.Facilities & SafetyThe district takes great efforts to ensure that all schools are clean, safe, and functional through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Desert Garden Elementary School™s 
original facilities were built in 1964, and ongoing maintenance and campus improvements ensure 
facilities remain up to date and provide adequate space for students and staff. District 
maintenance and site custodial staff ensure that the repairs necessary to keep the school in 
good condition are completed in a timely manner. A work order process is used by school and 
district staff to communicate non-routine maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are given 
the highest priority.  In the last 12 months, the following campus improvements have been 
completed:Ł Asbestos abatement in Room 14
Ł Installation of new carpet in Room 14 and P-32019-20 Campus Improvements:Ł Asbestos abatement in Room 4
Ł Installation of new carpeting in Room 4 and Portable 2Every morning before school begins, the custodian inspects the  facilities for safety 
hazards or other conditions that need 
attention prior to students and staff entering 
school grounds. One day custodian and one 
full-time evening custodian are assigned to 
Desert Garden Elementary School. The day 
custodians is responsible for:Ł Cafeteria setup/cleanupŁ General grounds maintenanceŁ Classroom cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningŁ Trash removal
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The evening custodian is 
responsible for:Ł Classroom cleaningŁ Common use area cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff daily concerning maintenance and 
school safety issues.Campus SupervisionSchool administration and teaching staff place 
a high priority on providing adequate adult 
supervision on campus before, during, and 
after school. As students arrive on campus 
each morning, student supervisors are strategically assigned to designated entrance 
areas, the breakfast area and the playground. 
During recess, teachers supervise playground 
activity. Student supervisors monitor lunch 
time activity in the cafeteria and on the playground. At the end of the day when 
students are dismissed, student supervisors 
monitor student behavior to ensure a safe and 
orderly departure. Desert Garden Elementary School is a closed 
campus with a fence around the entire campus. During school hours, all visitors must 

license to be scanned through Lobby Guard, 

school grounds. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˚˝˙
†˘˛˝
“˘˚˙‘˚˝˘˛
’˙˚˝˘
€˙•˚˛‡…˚˝˙—–˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝


ˇ
†
“‘˙˙
˝˜
ˆ€
ˆˇ
†
˝

˝
˝˜
˝ˆ•‡˝ˇˇ…˝
˝ˆˇ
˝˜

†
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˜˝˜˙˜˙ˆˆ˙
˘
˜˚˜˚
˘
˜ˆ
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇ˜
˘‡ˇˇˇˆˇ
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˆˇˇ
˘–
ˇˇˇˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
ƒ⁄‡‡ƒ
Desert Garden Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
School Site Safety PlanThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for Desert Garden Elementary 

requirements. Components of this plan include child abuse reporting procedures, teacher 

arrival and departure from school, sexual harassment policy, and dress code policy. The school™s 
most recent school safety plan was reviewed, updated, and discussed with school staff in 
January 2020.Facilities InspectionThe district™s maintenance department inspects Desert Garden Elementary School on an annual 
basis in accordance with Education Code §17592.72(c)(1).  Desert Garden Elementary School 
uses a school site inspection survey to identify unsafe or hazardous conditions and facility 
improvement needs.  The most recent school inspection took place on August 22, 2019. 


available for student use.SARC Data & Internet AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located at http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about Desert Garden 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 

statistics. Public Internet Access 
LocationParents may access Desert Garden 
Elementary School™s SARC and access the 
internet at any of the county™s public libraries. 
The closest public library to Desert Garden 
Elementary School is the El Centro Public 
Library.
El Centro Public Library 539 W. State Street
El Centro, CaliforniaPhone Number: (760) 337-4565Website: www.cityofelcentro.org/library
Hours: Mon-Thurs: 9am-7pm            Fri: 9am- 5pm             Sat & Sun: Closed Number of Computers Available: 5



Desert Garden Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District ExpendituresSalary & Budget ComparisonState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general public. For comparison purposes, the 
State Department of Education has provided average salary data from school districts 
having similar average daily attendance throughout the state. (Note: 2017-18 salary 
comparison data was the most recent data 
available at the time this report was published.) 
Expenditures Per StudentFor the 2017-18 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District spent an average 
of $12,338 of total general funds to educate 
each student (based on 2017-18 audited 

The table in this report 1) compares the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) 
and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the District and throughout the 
state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher 
salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding salaries can be found at 

food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.) ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘ˆ˝˙˜˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†˘ˇ˘“˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
‘’š‘€




†˘ˇ˘‡˝˙˘…
—’–š‘




“˘ˇ˘‡ƒˇ…
š’⁄‹‹
–’›—‘
⁄›−
š‰‘——–€−

‘€’š„›€€’„‹–€€−‘‘’–—⁄—‰—−
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
In addition to general fund state funding, El Centro Elementary School District receives state  
and federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District 
received categorical, special education, and support programs funds for:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
DisclosureThe statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the El Centro Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this 
report met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data 
available. Data to prepare the instructional materials was acquired in October 2019 and 
school facilities sections were acquired in November 2019.˜˚˜˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
€˙˘˘˛
•˘˛…
˜˘˛
†ˇ˘˛
‘
˛˘˛
•˘˘ƒ…
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
