Imperial Valley Home School Academy
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s MessageWelcome to IVHSA!
Imperial Valley Home School Academy is a wonderful partnership between the El Centro 
Elementary School District and families that are ﬁHome Schoolingﬂ their children. Our school is 

and engaging activities!
qualities that all of our students possess.We strive to provide the highest quality, personalized education for our students, all while 
maintaining a strong student/family/school partnership. The educational goals for your child(ren) 
are supported by our administration, teachers and all who are associated with IVHSA.
support personalized learning. The workshops are conducted at least twice a week by credentialed 
teachers that deliver expert instruction. The multi-age classes remain small in size, and our 
students receive the attention they need to be successful. Our parents lead independent/home 
study during the remainder of the week. This strong student/parent/teacher partnership has 
proven to be very successful.Special Education services are provided to all students with special needs as designated in the 
Individualized Education Program (IEP) for each student. Special Education teachers, classroom 
teachers, and service providers support the education plan for each student, working as a team, 
to support the progress of each student.Please, continue your on-going communication with us, as we partner with you through a 
successful school experience for your student(s). The Imperial Valley Home School Academy 

of all of our students! Thank you for your continued commitment and support of Imperial Valley 
Home School Academy!
Sincerely, 
Imperial Valley Home School Academy
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District & School DescriptionThe El Centro Elementary School District is 
located in Imperial County, and is surrounded 
by thousands of acres of California™s most 
productive farming land.  El Centro 
Elementary School District is comprised of 
nine elementary schools, two middle schools, 
and one home school academy which 
educates approximately 5,700 students in 
transitional kindergarten through eighth grade 
per school year.  The district is committed to 
preparing its students for the future and 
dedicated to excellence in the realm of 
academics. All programs within the district are 
founded on the principle that ﬁchildren come 
Imperial Valley Home School Academy 
serves students in transitional kindergarten through eighth grade.  During the 2018-19 school year,  the school had an enrollment of 
103 students  including 9.7% in special 
education, 10.7% qualifying for English 

qualifying for free or reduced price lunch. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ

˚˙ˆ
˘
˘†

˘“
‘
˘
˘’
˘šš
€ˇˇ˘‡
…˚˙ˇ–ˇ€ƒ˘⁄‡
‹ˇ›˙ˇ−
˜‰ˇ
„

—ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ‹˚—ˇ
”˙

€
‘˚ˇ‚—
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙

€ˇ™ˇ
ﬁ
ﬁˇ
ﬂ˙
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP)

develop, adopt, and annually update a 


for the state of California.  The following 
components of this SARC address some 
of the State™s priorities
:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area for the pupils they are teaching.Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and school facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress (CAASPP) System, which includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 

 mathematics given in grades three through 
eight and grade eleven.  Only eligible 
students may participate in the 
 administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are 
aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the  Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    

 cognitive disabilities).Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the 

 
technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy 
the requirements for entrance to the 

 
 technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł High school dropout ratesŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension ratesŁ Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of 
safetyState Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of 
 physical education.Parent InvolvementParents are encouraged to get involved in their child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating 
in a decision-making group, or attending 
school events.Parents stay informed of upcoming events 
and school activities through the school 
marquee, the school website, weekly 
newsletters, and TeleParent (automated 
telephone message delivery system). 

(760) 335-5100 for more information on how 
to become involved in your child™s learning 
environment.Opportunities to Volunteer

CommitteesParent Advisory Committee

School Activities
Parent Workshops

District PACE Trainings
Imperial Valley Home School Academy
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
2019-20 Trainings:
Ł Building Positive School and Classroom    Culture
Ł District Writing Buckets
 
    Gradebook and Report Cards, Science    Kits
   Instruction   Trainings
   and Phonemic Awareness
Ł Technology Integration with District 
   Initiatives and CurriculumŁ Trauma Informed Practices
Ł Digital Badging Trainings in District
   Curriculum and STAR Assessments

 Ł iRead Site Team Trainings
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł Co-Teaching
IVHSA offers support to new and veteran 
teachers through peer coaching and mentoring. Instructional aides are provided targeted training focused on teaching strategies and curriculum content. All staff 
are encouraged to attend professional 

support staff receive job-related training from 
department supervisors and district representatives.Curriculum & InstructionSchool LeadershipThe school™s leadership is comprised of the 
principal who works closely with the teachers 

responsible for the day-to-day operations of 
the school and the overall instructional program.  Coordinating efforts with the 
principal are all staff at the site with the 
assistance of district personnel.  The site 
team meets weekly throughout the year to 
discuss school operational systems and 
educational concerns.Specialized InstructionAll curriculum and instruction is being aligned 
to the California State Standards approved 
by the State Board of Education. The 
instructional program is structured so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to 
their learning level. All students are required 
to meet with their teachers at least one time 
per month to keep on track with home school 
studies, but many of the students attend event workshops at the school site. 
English and who have limited English 

them acquire English as quickly as possible 
and prepare them to meet the state™s 
academic content standards. English 


Assessments for California); results are used 
to evaluate individual student progress, 
intervention programs, and teaching strategies.IVHSA takes advantage of the district™s 



professional resources and expertise in the IVHSA provides a variety of intervention and 
remediation programs to support students™ 
efforts to achieve academic success and 

Assessment Blocks (IAB), as well as district 
benchmark assessments, teachers and administrators can identify students who are 
struggling or performing below state 

students who need extra help in any subject 
area, a Student Success Team pulls together 
school and family resources to identify and develop strategies to help students improve 
academic and/or behavioral performance. Enrichment Programs

grade level.  IVHSA has its own drill team 
which performs at community events throughout the year.  
Staff DevelopmentAll training and curriculum development activities in the El Centro Elementary School 
District are aligned to the California State 
Standards. During the 2018-19 school year, IVHSA held 
site-based staff development devoted to:
Ł Instructional StrategiesŁ Technology Training
Decisions concerning selection of staff 
development activities are performed by all 
staff using tools such as teacher input and data 
analysis to determine the areas in which 
additional teacher training may enhance 
classroom instruction and increase student 
achievement levels.  IVHSA supports ongoing 
professional growth throughout the year. 
Teachers meet to conduct data analysis to 
identify areas of needed support for students.During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 school years, El Centro Elementary School 
District provided districtwide professional 
development trainings on the following:2017-18 & 2018-19 Trainings:
Ł Curriculum Embedded Technology Training
   Training

 
Ł iRead Training
Ł Synergy Grade BookŁ WonderWorks Intervention Curriculum


Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł Co-Teaching Training
Ł Illuminate Data and Assessment
Ł Synergy Online Report Cards
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł California School DashboardŁ Dual Immersion Team Training
Ł CAASPP Training
Ł Art Workshops

   Education Teachers

Ł Data Teams Training

   Team Training

 


Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum at 
Imperial Valley Home School Academy are 
aligned to the California State Standards. 
Instructional materials are selected from the 
state™s most recent list of standards-based 
materials and adopted by the State Board of 
Education. The District follows the State 
Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core 

math, science, and social science). On Tuesday, October 8, 2019, the El Centro 
Elementary School District held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have been provided to students. The Governing 


§60119 (1) that textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to all students, 

the extent that each pupil has a textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 

and instructional materials were provided to 
are aligned to the academic content 
standards and consistent with the cycles and 
content of the curriculum frameworks in math, 
science, history-social science, and English/

adopted program, and 3) each pupil enrolled 

or instructional materials that are consistent 
with the content and cycles of the curriculum frameworks adopted by the State Board for 
those subjects.In addition to core subject areas, districts are 
required to disclose in their SARCs the 

their visual/performing arts curricula. During 
the 2019-20 school year, El Centro 
Elementary School District provided each 

in a visual/performing arts class with a 
textbook or instructional materials to use in class and to take home. These materials 
complied with the state™s content standards 
and curriculum frameworks.Classroom EnvironmentClass SizeThe Class Size Distribution chart would typically show each grade™s number of classrooms and 
their average class size.  However, since IVHSA is a home school academy and does not 
operate typical classrooms there is no data to report in this chart so no chart is contained within 
this report.Discipline & Climate for LearningIVHSA School discipline policies are based upon a schoolwide discipline plan, which is used 
as a guide to develop school rules, develop behavior management programs, promote 
responsibility, promote respect, and minimize school disruptions. Behavior expectations are 

in the classroom are discussed at the beginning of the year and throughout the year as needed.  
IVHSA employs a positive behavior approach to encourage students to make good choices in 
behavior and to follow school rules.  ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘“˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’š’€˘˘ˆ˘ˇ
˜˚˛•˙ˆˇ˘€‡…˘…—ƒ˘⁄ˇ˘
˝ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
›…ˇ

ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
…ˆ−
⁄ˇ˘ˆˇ
⁄˘˘⁄ˇ˘
„”˘˘‚
…ˇˇˆ™ˇ˘
˘ﬁ˘
ˇ
−ˆ˘–ﬂ˘˘
›˘ˆ˘
…
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˙ˆˇ˘†“†‘’˘š‘‘˘‘ˆ˘€ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘•“‡˘ˇ…˘—–ˆƒ
‘ˆ
‘˘‘ˆ
⁄—ˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
˙˘
—ˆ‹
‰˘˘
⁄˘‘ˆ˘
—
‚ˇ˘‘ˆˇ
‚˘˘‚ˇ˘
ﬁﬂ˘•˘Ł
—ˇˇ•ˆŒˇ˘
˘‡˘
ˇ
‹ˆ˘˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ




˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛


Imperial Valley Home School Academy
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


‘’˙’š’˘˚
€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€’ˆˆ•˝˛’˘˚


‡…’˛


˜—˚ˆˆ–
€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€’˝˙˙ƒˆ⁄˝˘˛



ˇ˘›˙’…ˆ
€€
€€
˛ˆ—’˛…ˆ⁄’˙’˛’
€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€˘˛ˆ–’‹’˘›ˆ’›˘˛ˆ
€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˙˝˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˙˝˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˙˝˛˜ˆ
ˇ
˝
˝˝

˙˝

˜˚˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
˜˙˛˛˝˙ˆˇ˙˛ˇ˛

˘˙˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˘˛˜˙˘˜
˛ˇ˛˛“
˙˘˛˛˝˙ˆˇ˙˘˘˙˛˛˛˙˘˛˝˙
˙˘˛˝˙ˇˇ
†“‘
ˇšˇ’€
š
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛



˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the 
school™s overall score in each applicable 
subgroup. Results are shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking 

in the tables, no students met subgroup 
found on the California Department of 
Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/
ca/.Physical FitnessIn the spring of each year, IVHSA is required 




in six major areas. Students that either meet 


district and state results can be found at the CDE™s Website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/. 
There is no data to report for this school site 
as there were less than 10 students in grades 

order to ensure the privacy of these students.Student Achievement
California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
(CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 

the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well 

mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 

performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). ˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘



˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

Imperial Valley Home School Academy
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Professional StaffTeacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, IVHSA had three teachers who met all credential requirements 

the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching 

misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the 

subject area, student group, etc.Counseling & Support Staff
staff who provide additional services and 
support centered on the whole student 
academically, physically, and mentally. The 
Counseling and Support Services table in this 
report illustrates the availability of non-
instructional support staff to IVHSA™s 
students.
measurement used to identify an employee™s 


position and the employee is on campus and 
available all day every day of the week; an 

available and on campus a portion (50%) of 
the week. Facilities & SafetyThe district takes great efforts to ensure that all schools are clean, safe, and functional through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. IVHSA™s original facilities were built in 

and provide adequate space for students and staff. 
District maintenance and site custodial staff ensure that the repairs necessary to keep the school 
in good condition are completed in a timely manner. A work order process is used by school 
and district staff to communicate non-routine maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are 
given the highest priority. 
Every morning before school begins, the custodian inspects the  facilities for safety hazards or other conditions that need attention prior to students and staff entering school grounds. One 
part-time custodian is assigned to IVHSA. The custodian is responsible for:
Ł Restroom cleaningŁ Trash removal
Ł Special event setup/cleanupRestrooms are checked regularly throughout the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The custodial manager 
and the principal communicate with the 
custodian and district maintenance staff on a 
regular basis concerning maintenance and 
school safety issues.Campus SupervisionSchool administration and teaching staff 
place a high priority on providing adequate 
adult supervision while students are on 
campus.  When students are on site to attend 
activities or to meet with their teacher, school 
staff provide appropriate supervision of all 
activities. IVHSA is a closed campus. During school 
hours, all visitors must sign in at the school™s 

school grounds. School Site Safety PlanThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for IVHSA in collaboration 


Components of this plan include child abuse 

dangerous pupil procedures, disaster 
response procedures, procedures for safe 
arrival and departure from school, sexual 
harassment policy, and dress code policy. 
The school™s safety plan is reviewed and 
updated in January 2019, and discussed with 
school staff in August 2019 and throughout 
the year.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˛˝
˛˝˙
†˘˙“‘˚
˚˝˚˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆˆ˙
˘

˘
ˇˇˇ
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡ˇˇˇˆˇ
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˆˇˇ
˘–
ˇ˜ˇˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
ƒ–⁄

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝


˝˜
˜
˝˜
ˆˇ
˝˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
Imperial Valley Home School Academy
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Facilities InspectionThe district™s maintenance department inspects IVHSA on an annual basis in accordance with 
Education Code §17592.72(c)(1).  IVHSA uses a school site inspection survey to identify unsafe 
or hazardous conditions and facility improvement needs.  The most recent school inspection 


were fully functional and available for student use. SARC Data & Internet AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about IVHSA and 
comparisons of the school to the district, the 
county, and the state.  DataQuest provides 
reports for school accountability, including but 
not limited to, CAASPP results, Physical 

Dropout & Graduation Rates, enrollment, and 
Public Internet Access 
LocationParents may access IVHSA™s SARC and 
access the internet at any of the county™s 
public libraries. The closest public library to 

539 W. State Street, El Centro
Website: www.cityofelcentro.org/library
            Sat & Sun: Closed 



Imperial Valley Home School Academy
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District ExpendituresSalary & Budget ComparisonState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the 
State Department of Education has provided 
average salary data from school districts 
having similar average daily attendance 

comparison data was the most recent data 
available at the time this report was published.) 
Expenditures Per Student
Elementary School District spent an average 
of $12,338 of total general funds to educate 
each student (based on 2017-18 audited 


unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the District and 
throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average 
teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding salaries can be 
found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The 

excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.) 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
†“˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†‘˘ˇ˘’˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
š€
•
•
•
•
‘˘ˇ˘…˝˙˘—
•
•
•
•
’˘ˇ˘…ƒˇ—
š€–⁄⁄

‹‹−
‰⁄š‹„–”−
†“
›⁄€š‹”››€”‹−šš€‹⁄„−
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
In addition to general fund state funding, El Centro Elementary School District receives state  

received categorical, special education, and support programs funds for:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Special EducationŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
DisclosureThe statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the El Centro Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this 
report met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data 
available. Data to prepare the instructional materials was acquired in October 2019 and 
˜˚˜˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
€˙˘˘˛
•˘˛…
˜˘˛
†ˇ˘˛
‘
˛˘˛
•˘˘ƒ…
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
