Harding Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
I™d like to welcome you to Harding Elementary School™s Annual School Accountability Report Card 
and thank you for taking time to explore it. As principal, I could not be more proud of the school 
over which I preside, and am honored to have the opportunity to share the basis for such pride 
with you. The purpose of this report card is to afford you further insight into the quality education 
program we offer.
It is the belief of Harding Elementary School that students will excel in an environment that is 
tailored to their evolving needs, and conducive to all facets of the learning process. It is due to 
this belief that we have been able to successfully develop a comprehensive education system 
that promotes cultural diversity, individuality, and intellectual achievement. We strive to provide 
students with not only the stimulation and encouragement to accomplish such feats, but the 
means to do so as well.In our long-standing tradition of excellence, we maintain our commitment to students, parents, 
community members, and staff to provide the best educational experience possible. We renew 
this commitment yearly in hopes that together we will continue to improve our effectiveness in 
edifying students of today, in order to prepare them to become productive citizens of tomorrow. 
It is in light of this fact that we welcome any suggestions, ideas, or comments you may have.Thank you for assisting Harding Elementary School in making our students™ experiences here 
memorable and enjoyable.School Behavioral ExpectationHarding Eagles are a community of respectful learners who make smart choices and persevere 
towards academic success.District & School DescriptionThe El Centro Elementary School District is located in Imperial County, and is surrounded by 
thousands of acres of California™s most 
productive farming land.  El Centro Elementary School District is comprised of nine elementary schools, two middle schools, and one home 
school academy which educates approximately 5,700 students in transitional kindergarten 
through eighth grade per school year.  The 
district is committed to preparing its students for 
the future and dedicated to excellence in the 
realm of academics. All programs within the 
district are founded on the principle that ﬁchildren 
Harding Elementary School serves students in 
kindergarten through sixth grade and is a Dual 
Immersion School.  During the 2018-19 school 
year,  the school had an enrollment of 576 
students including 10.6% in special education, 
35.6% qualifying for English Language Learner 
support, 0.5% homeless youth, 1.2% foster youth, and 78% qualifying for free or reduced 
price lunch. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘“†‘
˘’‘š

˘

˘š€€
˘•€“
˘‡€“
…ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

˚ˇ„–

•†‡˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙
…ˇ™ˇ
”
ˇ
˙ˆ˚

Harding Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Local Control Accountability Plan (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a 
three-year Local Control and Accountability 
Plan (LCAP) that supports the priorities 
for the state of California.  The following 
components of this SARC address some 
of the State™s priorities
:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area for the pupils they are 
teaching.Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned instructional materials; and school facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System, which includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general 
education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
 mathematics given in grades three through 
eight and grade eleven.  Only eligible 
students may participate in the 
 administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items 
are aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the 
 Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    

 cognitive disabilities).Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to 
the University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the 
 California State University, or career 
 technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł High school dropout ratesŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension ratesŁ Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of 
 physical education.Parent InvolvementParents are encouraged to become involved in 
their child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating in 
a decision-making group, or attending school 
events.Parents stay informed of upcoming events and 
school activities through monthly newsletters, 
parent conferences, progress reports, the school marquee, the school website, and 
Blackboard Connect (automated telephone 
message delivery system). Contact any school 

at (760) 352-4791 for more information on how 
to become involved in your child™s learning 
environment.Opportunities to Volunteer
Classroom HelperFundraising Activities
Library HelperSchool Picture Day HelperCommitteesEnglish Learner Advisory Council (ELAC)
 Parent Teacher Association (PTA)
School Site CouncilSchool Activities
Back to School Night Student PerformancesStudent Recognition Assemblies
Various PTA Events
Curriculum & InstructionSchool LeadershipThe administrative team is comprised of the principal, who works closely with the teachers 
and school staff. Principal Norberto Nuñez is 
responsible for the day-to-day operations of 
the school and all the components of the 
instructional programs. Coordinating efforts 
with the principal is the Reading Coach and 
teachers. The staff is responsible for 
evaluation of instructional programs, 
assessments, planning and delivery. 
Principal Nuñez has been in the educational 


2019-20 school year. Previous positions held 
in other schools include: classroom teacher, 
vice principal and principal. Principal  Nuñez 
holds a master™s degree in Educational 
Leadership, a teaching credential, and an 
administrative credential. Specialized InstructionAll curriculum and instruction is being aligned 
to the California State Standards approved 
by the State Board of Education. The 
instructional program is structured so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their learning level. Teachers use a variety of 
research-based instructional strategies and 
techniques using state-approved instructional 
materials to ensure academic success. For students whose primary language is not 
English and who have limited English 

offers programs to help them acquire English 
as quickly as possible and prepare them to 
meet the state™s academic content standards. 
All classrooms are Structured English Immersion (SEI) and English learners may 
be clustered during ELD instruction. Instruction focuses on reinforcement of class 
lessons, reading intervention, and targeted support in areas of need. Some students 
receive English Language Development 
instruction as a supplement to their regular 
Language Arts instruction. Students provided 
ELD instruction are regrouped based on 
Harding Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł History-Social Studies FrameworkŁ Art Workshops
Ł English Learner InstituteŁ System 44 Intervention Training for Special 
   Education Teachers
Ł Read 180 Universal Intervention Training
Ł Data Teams Training
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL) Site 
   Team Training
Ł Renaissance Star Reading, Math, and    Early Literacy Training
2019-20 Trainings:
Ł Building Positive School and Classroom    CultureŁ CPR and First Aid - PE Teachers
Ł Department Collaboration MeetingsŁ District Writing Buckets
Ł District Curriculum Guide Updates (ELA,    ELD and Math)Ł Support for New Teachers in ELA 
   Curriculums, Math Curriculums, Online    Gradebook and Report Cards, Science    KitsŁ PEAKing English language Arts and Math 
   InstructionŁ Reading and Math Intervention Program    Trainings
Ł Reading Foundations Including Phonics    and Phonemic Awareness
Ł Technology Integration with District 
   Initiatives and CurriculumŁ Trauma Informed Practices
Ł Digital Badging Trainings in District
   Curriculum and STAR Assessments
Ł Reading FoundationsŁ New Social Studies CurriculumŁ Math Lesson StudiesŁ Math 180 Training
Ł Math 180, Read 180, System 44, and Do    the Math Coaching SupportŁ iRead Site Team Trainings
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł Universal Design for Learning (UDL)Ł Co-Teaching
Decisions concerning selection of staff 
development activities are performed by all 
staff using tools such as teacher input and 
data analysis to determine the areas in which 
additional teacher training may enhance 
classroom instruction and increase student 
achievement levels.  Harding Elementary 
School supports ongoing professional growth 
throughout the year through weekly 
Professional Learning Communities and 
grade level staff meetings. Teachers meet to 
conduct data analysis to identify areas of 
need.

Elementary School™s teachers utilize the 


6), state-approved reading intervention 
programs and textbook adoption. English Learners are assessed annually using the 
Assessment for California); results are used 
to evaluate student progress, intervention 
programs, and teaching strategies.Harding Elementary School™s special 
education program is staffed by a special 
education teacher and instructional aides. 
Instruction is provided in the least restrictive environment based on each student™s 
Individual Education Plan (IEP). Students 
have access to a comprehensive curriculum 
and are mainstreamed into the general 
education class with in-class support in both 
small group and individual settings. A portion 
of instruction may be provided in the special 
day class. The IEP team meets annually to 

academic instruction, evaluate the effectiveness of the student™s plan, and make 
instructional adjustments as necessary. 
Harding Elementary School takes advantage 
of the district™s participation in the Imperial 

Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), which 
provides a pool of professional resources and 
Harding Elementary School provides a variety 
of intervention and remediation programs to 
support students™ efforts to achieve academic 
success and reach grade level expectations. 
Using Interim Assessment Blocks (IAB), as 
well as, district benchmark assessments, 
CAASPP test results and end-of-theme 
exams, teachers and administrators can identify students who are struggling or 

level standards. For those students who need 
extra help in any subject area, a Student 
Study Team (SST) pulls together school and 
family resources to identify and develop strategies to help students improve academic 
and/or behavioral performance. Harding offers a Dual Immersion (DI) program 
where students have the opportunity to 
become bilingual and biliterate. Students in 
the DI program learn to read, write, and 
speak both English and Spanish following a 
90/10 Dual Immersion model starting in Kindergarten. The program was established 
in 2011 and currently is offered for grade 
K-6th.    Enrichment ProgramsHarding Elementary School offers an all day 
kindergarten program, a band program to all 
fourth through sixth grade students, and a 
strings program to all fourth through sixth 
grade students who wish to participate.   All 
students can participate in the After School 
Education & Safety (ASES) Program which 
offers enrichment programs in science, visual 
arts, performing arts, and physical education. 
Staff DevelopmentAll training and curriculum development activities in the El Centro Elementary School 
District are aligned to the California State 
Standards. During the 2018-19 school year, Harding 
Elementary School held site-based 
professional development devoted to:Ł AVID
Ł Common Core State StandardsŁ Data Analysis
Ł Data Teams
Ł English Language Arts
Ł English Language DevelopmentŁ Formative Assessments
Ł Go Math!Ł Non-Violent Crisis Prevention Intervention
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & SupportŁ Professional Learning CommunitiesŁ School BusinessŁ Technology
Ł Unit PlanningŁ WICORŁ Writing
During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 
school years, El Centro Elementary School 
District provided districtwide professional 
development trainings on the following:2017-18 & 2018-19 Trainings:
Ł Curriculum Embedded Technology Training
Ł Next Generation Science Standards    Training
Ł Math Lesson StudiesŁ Intro to New Financial System, AED 
   Training, Technology Updates
Ł iRead Training
Ł Synergy Grade BookŁ WonderWorks Intervention Curriculum
Ł Wonders ELA/ELD Curriculum
Ł Journeys ELA/ELD CurriculumŁ StudySync ELA Curriculum
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł Co-Teaching Training
Ł Illuminate Data and Assessment
Ł Synergy Online Report CardsŁ ELPAC
Ł Schoolwide AVID
Ł California School DashboardŁ Dual Immersion Team Training
Ł CAASPP Training
Harding Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Harding Elementary School offers support to 
new and veteran teachers through peer 
coaching and mentoring. Instructional aides 
are provided targeted training focused on teaching strategies and curriculum content. 
All staff are encouraged to attend professional 

support staff receive job-related training from 
department supervisors and district 
representatives.Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum at 
Harding Elementary School are aligned to the 
California State Standards. Instructional 
materials are selected from the state™s most 
recent list of standards-based materials and 
adopted by the State Board of Education. The 
District follows the State Board of Education™s 
adoption cycle for core content materials 
(English/Language Arts, math, science, and 
social science). On Tuesday, October 8, 2019, the El Centro 
Elementary School District held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks 
and instructional materials have been provided to students. The Governing Board 
adopted Resolution No. 100819-3003 which 

§60119 (1) that textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to all students, 
including English Learners, in the District to 
the extent that each pupil has a textbook or 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ




˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛



Classroom EnvironmentDiscipline & Climate for LearningHarding Elementary  School™s discipline 
policies are based upon a schoolwide 
discipline plan, which is used as a guide to 
develop school rules, develop behavior 
management programs, promote responsibility, promote respect, and minimize 
classroom disruptions. Teachers clearly 
identify and explain behavior expectations to 
their students and discuss consequences for 
poor or disruptive behavior in the classroom. 
Harding Elementary  School employs a 
progressive approach in managing students 
who make poor choices in behavior, do not 
follow school rules, or are disruptive in the 
classroom.  Class SizeThe Class Size Distribution table in this 
report illustrates the distribution of class 
sizes by grade level, the average class size, 
and the number of classes that contain 1-20 
students, 21-32 students, and 33 or more 
students. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘“˘
˘˚ˆ˝
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’š’€˘˘ˆ˘ˇ
˜˚˛•˙ˆˇ˘€‡…˘…—ƒ˘⁄ˇ˘
˝ˇ
ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
…ˆ›
⁄ˇ˘ˆˇ
⁄˘˘⁄ˇ˘
‰„˘˘”
…ˇˇˆ‚ˇ˘
˘™˘
ˇ
›ˆ˘–ﬁ˘˘
ﬂ˘ˆ˘
…
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
ﬂ…ˇ

instructional materials, or both, to use in class 
and instructional materials were provided to each student, including English Learners, that 
are aligned to the academic content standards 
and consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks in math, science, history-social science, and English/Language 
Arts, including the English Language 
Development component of an adopted 
program, and 3) each pupil enrolled in a foreign 

instructional materials that are consistent with 
the content and cycles of the curriculum frameworks adopted by the State Board for those subjects.In addition to core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the 

their visual/performing arts curricula. During 
the 2019-20 school year, El Centro Elementary 
School District provided each student, including 
English Learners, enrolled in a visual/
performing arts class with a textbook or 
instructional materials to use in class and to 
take home. These materials complied with the 
state™s content standards and curriculum 
frameworks.˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝˜˙
˜˝
˙˛˝˜˙
˙˝
˙˘˝
˙˝
˙˝
˙ˇ˝˜˙
˜˝
˙˛˝˜˙
˙˝
˙˘˝
˙˝˜˛
˝
˙ˇ˝
˙˜˝
˙˛˝˜˙
˙˝
˙˘˝˜˙
˝
˙˝
˙




†“‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
˜’
˛˝˜’˚˜š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
Harding Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••‡ˆˆ—˝˛


–˛

••

••
˜⁄˚ˆˆ‹
••••••••••••••••••••˝˙˙›ˆ−˝˘˛


ˇƒˆ


˛ˆ⁄˛ƒˆ−˛


˘˛ˆ‹„ˆ„˘˛ˆ
••••••••••••••••••••˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˛˙
ˇ˙

ˆˆˆ˘˙˚˘˜ˇˆ˘†“˚
˘‘’š˘€‘
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˘
ˆ
Student Achievement
California Assessment of 
Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes the Smarter Balanced 
Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students 
in the general education population, and the 
California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for 

disabilities.  Only eligible students may 
participate in the administration of the CAAs.  
CAAs items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards, which are linked with 
the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  
CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards 
in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests 
assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive 
tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test 
items are aligned with alternative achievement 
standards which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable 
subgroup. Results are shown only for 
subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be 
found on the California Department of 
Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/
ca/.˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆ
˚˝˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘
˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

ˇ˛˙˘
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
†ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ˙“˛‘’š
Physical FitnessIn the spring of each year, Harding 
Elementary School is required by the state 


test measures each student™s ability to 

Students that either meet or exceed the 



and state results can be found at the CDE™s 
Website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/. 
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ

Harding Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Professional StaffTeacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, Harding Elementary School had 24 teachers who met all 

number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full 
credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English 
learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term 

to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.Counseling & Support StaffHarding Elementary  School provides 

additional services and support centered on 
the whole student academically, physically, 
and mentally. The Counseling and Support 
Services table in this report illustrates the 
availability of non-instructional support staff to 
Harding Elementary  School™s students.
Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an employee™s 
regular work load on a weekly basis. For example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and 
available all day every day of the week; an 
FTE of 0.5 indicates that the staff member is 
available and on campus a portion (50%) of 
the week. Facilities & SafetyCampus SupervisionSchool administration and teaching staff place a high priority on providing adequate adult 
supervision on campus before, during, and after school. As students arrive on campus each 
morning, student supervisors are strategically assigned to designated entrance areas, the 
breakfast area and playground. During recess, teachers and supervisors monitor playground 
activity. Student supervisors monitor lunch time activity in the cafeteria and on the playground. 
At the end of the day when students are dismissed, student supervisors monitor student 
behavior to ensure a safe and orderly departure. Harding Elementary is a closed campus. 
During school hours, all visitors must sign in 

badges while on school grounds. The district takes great efforts to ensure that 
all schools are clean, safe, and functional 
through proper facilities maintenance and 
campus supervision. Harding Elementary 
School™s original facilities were built in 1949, 
and ongoing maintenance and campus 
improvements ensure facilities remain up to 
date and provide adequate space for students and staff. 
District maintenance and site custodial staff 
ensure that the repairs necessary to keep the 
school in good condition are completed in a 
timely manner. A work order process is used 
by school and district staff to communicate 
non-routine maintenance requests. 
Emergency repairs are given the highest priority. In the past 12 months the following 
campus improvements have been completed:
Ł Asbestos abatement in Rooms 2 & 12
Ł Installation of new carpeting in Rooms    2 & 12Ł Relocation of playground equipment2019-20 Campus Improvements in Progress:Ł Asbestos abatement in Rooms 13 & 14
Ł Installation of new carpeting in Rooms   13 & 14Ł Installation of new LVT in Kinder Room 2
Every morning before school begins, the custodian inspects  facilities for safety 
hazards or conditions that need attention 
prior to students and staff entering school 
grounds. One day custodian and one evening 
custodian are assigned to Harding 
Elementary School. The day custodian is 
responsible for:Ł Cafeteria setup/cleanupŁ General grounds maintenanceŁ Restroom cleaning˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆˆ˙
˘

˘
˜˜ˆ
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡ˇˇˇˆˇ
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˆˇˇ
˘–
ˇˇˇˆˇ

‡⁄
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝
˝

ˇ

ˆ˝˜
˝˜
ˆ‘
ˆˇ
’
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙

˚˝˙
†˘“‘˛˙˚˝
‘˘˚˙“˚˝˘˛
’˙
’˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
Harding Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout the day for cleanliness and subsequently cleaned 
as needed. The evening custodian is responsible for:
Ł Classroom cleaningŁ Common use area cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial staff daily concerning maintenance and school safety 
issues.School Site Safety PlanThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for Harding Elementary in 


dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and 
departure from school, sexual harassment policy, and dress code policy. The school™s safety 
plan is reviewed, updated, and discussed with school staff in January 2020.
Facilities InspectionThe district™s maintenance department inspects Harding Elementary on an annual basis in 
accordance with Education Code §17592.72(c)(1).  Harding Elementary uses a school site 
inspection survey to identify unsafe or hazardous conditions and facility improvement needs.  

school inspection survey were corrected immediately by the district™s maintenance department. 



SARC Data & Internet AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located at http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about Harding 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 

statistics. Public Internet Access 
LocationParents may access Harding Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries. The 
closest public library to Harding Elementary 
School is the El Centro Public Library.
El Centro Public Library 539 W. State Street, El Centro
Phone Number: (760) 337-4565Website: www.cityofelcentro.org/library
Hours: Mon-Thurs 9am-7pm            Fri 9am- 5pm            Sat 9am-1pm            Sun ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 5
Harding Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District ExpendituresSalary & Budget ComparisonState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state. 
(Note: 2017-18 salary comparison data was the 
most recent data available at the time this report 
was published.) Expenditures Per StudentFor the 2017-18 school year, El Centro Elementary School District spent an average of $12,338 


1) compares the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted 
(supplemental) sources with other schools in the District and throughout the state, and 2) compares 
the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state 
levels. Detailed information regarding salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.

direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and 
construction, and certain other expenditures.) In addition to general fund state funding, El Centro Elementary School District receives state  and 
federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District received 
categorical, special education, and support programs funds for:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
DisclosureThe statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the El Centro Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this report 
met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data available. 
Data to prepare the instructional materials was acquired in October 2019 and school facilities 
sections were acquired in November 2019.˜˚˜˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
€˙˘˘˛
•˘˛…
˜˘˛
†ˇ˘˛
‘
˛˘˛
•˘˘ƒ…
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˆˇ˜˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†˘ˇ˘“˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
‘’š€š




†˘ˇ˘‡˝˙˘…
—’–š—




“˘ˇ˘‡ƒˇ…
–’⁄—‹
–’›—‘
š‹−
„€‘—⁄⁄–−

š„’š‰€‹‹’‰⁄–—€‹−‘‘’–—š—⁄›−
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
