Belridge Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Superintendent™s Message
I would like to welcome you to Belridge Elementary 
School District™s Annual School Accountability 
Report Card and thank you for taking the time to 
explore it. The opportunity to do so has presented 
itself in the form of compliance with Proposition 98, 

as a required component that every school in 
California must issue.
It is our belief that students can and will excel in an 
environment that is tailored to their evolving needs. 
Although we recognize our areas of need and 
concern, we are extremely proud that we continue 
to work towards meeting all academic goals from the 
district, state, and federal government.
The hard working staff is both skilled and dedicated 
to the success of all students. We are fortunate to 
have experienced and knowledgeable teachers and 
bilingual aides eager to make a difference for our 
students. We believe in a student-centered 
approach, which provides an atmosphere in which 
a child™s social, emotional, and intellectual needs are 
equally important.
Our goal in presenting you with this information is to 
keep our community, and the public in general, well 

the lines of communication open and welcome any 
suggestions, comments, or questions you may have. 
It is the opinion of the district and myself in particular 
that a well informed public is vital in continuing to 
advance in an ever-evolving world. Thank you for 
helping Belridge School change with the times and 

come.
Community & School 
Description
Belridge Elementary School has a population 
of 36 students, a principal/superintendent, a 

aide, one engagement specialist, and a 

has enjoyed strong parent and community 
support. The school is located at 19447 Wagon 
Wheel Road in McKittrick, California. Belridge 
is a rural TK-8 school district that has been 
educating children on the west side of the San 
Joaquin Valley since the early 1900™s. The 

The Belridge School mission is to provide 
students with a positive and challenging 
learning environment, which empowers them to 
become responsible and productive citizens 
who demonstrate positive self-esteem. We 
believe children are unique individuals who 
grow and learn at different paces. We nurture 
the natural curiosity and joy for learning that 
children possess. Along with our parents and 
community, we build a solid foundation for the 
future learning of all Belridge students.
Contents
Community & School Description 
Superintendent™s Message
Parent Involvement
Student Achievement
School Facilities & Safety
Classroom Environment
Curriculum & Instruction
Professional Staff
District Expenditures
SARC Data & Internet Access
The statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department of Education and the Belridge Elementary School District. At the time of publication, this report met 
all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data available. Data for school facilities and instructional materials sections were acquired in November 2019.ﬁEducating students for success in a changing 
world; where our roots go deep and our 
children blossom.ﬂ
Local Control 
Accountability Plan (LCAP)
As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, 
school districts are required to develop, adopt, and 
annually update a three-year Local Control and 
Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 
components of this SARC address some of the 

Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ State 

appropriately assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject areas and for the pupils they are teaching; 
pupils have access to standards-aligned instructional 
materials and school facilities are maintained in 
good repair.  Covered in Teacher Assignment, 
including the Teacher Credentials & Misassignments 
chart; Instructional Materials, including the 
Textbooks chart; and School Facilities & 
Maintenance, including the Campus Description and 
School Facility Good Repair Status charts.
Conditions of Learning (Implementation of State 

academic content and performance standards 
adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report Card.

seek parent input in decision making, promotion of 
parent participation in programs for unduplicated 
pupils and special need subgroups.  Covered in 
Parent Involvement.

on standardized tests, score on Academic 
Performance Index, share of pupils that are college 
and career ready, share of English learners that 


Advanced Placement exams with a 3 or higher, and 
share of pupils determined prepared for college by 
the Early Assessment Program.  Covered in 
California Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress, including the CAASPP charts.

School attendance rates, chronic absenteeism rates, 
middle school dropout rates, high school dropout 
rates, and high school graduation rates.   Covered 
in Dropout Rates, including the Dropout chart; and 
Graduation Rates, including the Graduation Rate 
chart for high schools only.

rates, pupil expulsion rates, other local measures 
including surveys of pupils, parents, and teachers on 
the sense of safety and school connectedness.  
Covered in Discipline & Climate for Learning, 
including the Suspension & Expulsion chart; and 
School Site Safety Plan.



















































Belridge Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 

study that includes all of the subject areas.   Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report Card.

outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in 
Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness 
Test chart.
Parent Involvement
Parents are encouraged to get involved in their 
child™s learning environment by attending school 
events, serving on school committees,  attending 

welcome assistance in the classroom, help with 

Parents who want to be a part of the decision-
making process are invited to join the School Site 
Council, LCAP Parent Committee, or run for a 
seat/position on the Board of Trustees. Meetings 
are held monthly for the LCAP Stakeholders. 
Many school events throughout the year provide 
opportunities for parents to support their child™s 
academic experience as well as interact with 
school staff.  Belridge Elementary School™s 

Ł Annual Track Meet
Ł Annual Thanksgiving Feast
Ł Back to School Night
Ł Cinco De Mayo
Ł Community Club
Ł Fall Festival/Trunk or Treat
Ł Family Math Night
Ł Friday Night Live
Ł Latino Literacy (6-week program)
Ł Monthly Sports Competitions
Ł Parent Teacher Conferences
Ł Parent Education Workshops 
Ł Reading Slumber Party
Ł Red Ribbon Week
Ł Science Exploration

Ł Student Council
Ł Student Performances
Ł Student Recognition Assemblies
All school-to-home communication is provided in 
both English and Spanish. Teachers prepare 
monthly newsletters to keep parents apprised of 
current class curriculum and activities. A school 
newsletter is sent home with students weekly; 
newsletters featuring policy changes, special 
announcements, student recognition, and dates 
of school events. The 
Nutrition Nuggets 
and
 Reading Connection
 newsletters are distributed 
monthly and features guidance and advice to 
promote healthy eating habits. Remind and Class 
DoJo Apps are used to send information and 
updates to parent™s cell phones. Phone calls to 
the home are made when more personal contact 
is necessary. The superintendent/principal and 

regarding cases of extreme truancy or other 
serious concerns. Throughout the year, Belridge 
Elementary School provides the 
Home to School 
Connection
 published by the Kern County 
Superintendent of Schools; the publication 
includes a variety of valuable education and 
health related  articles to encourage and help 
families support the learning process at home.
Student Achievement
Physical Fitness
In the spring of each year, Belridge Elementary School is required by the state to administer a physical 




to maintain individual privacy, scores are not released. Comparative results can be found at the CDE™s 
website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress
The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes the 
Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education population, 

disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are 
aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the Common Core State Standards 
(CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well students are mastering California™s standards in 
English language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and 
grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing 
computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). 
The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and state 
scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown only for 
subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank in the tables, 
no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the California 
Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.





































Belridge Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
School Facilities & Safety
School Facilities
Belridge Elementary School provides a safe, clean 
environment for learning through proper facilities 
maintenance and campus supervision. Existing 
school facilities were built in 1982; ongoing 
maintenance and improvements ensure campus 
facilities remain up to date and provide adequate 
space for students and staff.  
Belridge Elementary School is a beautiful facility.  
Its three main buildings are connected with covered 

boardroom, and cafeteria are located in one 
building.  Classrooms for grades TK-3 and the RSP 

classrooms for grades 4-8 are in the second 
building. Each classroom is eqipped with their own 
library as a resource for the students and all 
students have either a Chromebook or iPad to use 
during school. A separate, full-size gymnasium and 
bus barn are located on the north side of the 
campus. Students share one large playground 
which features modern playground equipment 
(inspected regularly).  On the west side of the 

and the K-8 Small School™s track meet.
Campus Supervision
As students arrive on campus each morning,  the superintendent/principal greets all students and a 
supervision aide monitors students on the playground, in the bus area, and in the cafeteria. During 
recesses and lunch, supervision aides share the responsibility to monitor behavior in the cafeteria and 
on the playground. When students are dismissed for the day, the superintendent/principal, teachers, and 
any other assigned staff escort students to the bus area to ensure students depart safely. 
Belridge Elementary School welcomes parents and visitors on campus. During school hours, visitors 

Parents who would like to observe their child™s classroom instruction are requested to provide 24 hours 
advance notice to their child™s teacher. On Fridays, parent helpers are on site and available to help in 
each classroom.
School Site Safety Plan

requirements. The plan was compiled with input from and in collaboration with the Buttonwillow Sheriff, 


pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and departure from school, 
sexual harassment policy, dress code policy, and bully prevention policy. Belridge Elementary School™s 
most current school site safety plan was reviewed, updated, and shared with school staff in September 
2019.  


























































Campus culture promotes a secure learning 
environment that encourages mutual respect, 
safe and healthy relationships, dignity, and 
equality. During Red Ribbon Week, in classroom 
discussions, and at school assemblies, students 
are engaged in fun learning activities that address 


department does a presentation for all students 

presents a class on safety and the use of 9-1-1. 
Belridge Elementary School participates in 

and harassment are not tolerated.  The district has 
employed policies, procedures, and practices to 
reduce and eliminate bullying and harassment as 
well as the means to address such incidents when 
they occur. Students and their parents receive 
information annually regarding district policies 
concerning anti-bullying and harassment. Staff 
attended an Aera Energy Safety Team assembly 
where heat exhaustion and EpiPen training was 
held on campus.
Campus Maintenance
Belridge Elementary School follows a scheduled 
maintenance program to ensure that all 
classrooms and facilities are well-maintained and 
in good repair.  One full-time MOT staff member, 
one part-time custodian, and one substitute bus 
driver are responsible for routine maintenance, 
daily custodial duties, and special events 
preparation. 
The superintendent/principal communicates daily 
with the MOT staff member on an as needed basis 
to discuss school facilities and safety issues, 
custodial responsibilities, housekeeping needs, 
and maintenance schedules. The MOT staff 

schedules, and policies for maintaining clean, 
safe environments for everyone on campus. The 

handle minor  repairs and maintenance projects. 
School staff communicate unscheduled 
maintenance requests and special projects to the 
MOT staff member through a work order system. 
Larger projects requiring third party contractors 
are coordinated by the superintendent/principal. 
All staff work together to resolve urgent situations 
immediately.
















Belridge Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Classroom Environment
Discipline & Climate for Learning
A warm, nurturing atmosphere, and an effective 
learning program provide the basis for Belridge 
Elementary School™s assertive discipline program. 
All school staff support an environment that 
encourages well-behaved students who are focused 
on learning and making good choices. Assertive 
discipline practices are embedded into the campus 
culture and daily lessons, providing students with 
opportunities to develop self-discipline and learn 
how to be responsible and respectful citizens. The 
superintendent/principal employs a progressive 
discipline approach when students demonstrate 
poor behavior. 
At the beginning of each school year and upon 


includes a detailed explanation of school rules, 
playground rules, bus rules, district policies, 
behavior expectations, and a school-parent 


packet with their students. Teachers have adopted 
age-appropriate classroom management and 
incentive plans. All classrooms display student 
behavior charts and posters outlining playground, 
bus, and school rules. Students are reminded as 
needed by their teachers of their academic and 
behavioral responsibilities throughout the year. 
Belridge Elementary School encourages and 
supports good citizenship and academic progress 
throughout the school year. Teachers contact each 
of their student™s parents to report on student 
behavior daily.
Students who demonstrate positive behavior, good 
citizenship, academic effort, and good 
sportsmanship are eligible to be nominated for the 
Student of the Month award. Award assemblies are 
held at the end of each quarter to recognize 
students. Selected students are recognized at 

complete all their homework are invited to 

the end of the school year, all eighth grade students 
who graduate go on a skating trip with all west side 
graduates. 
 
Ł Upgrades to the school track (Aera to assist)
Before students arrive on campus, the custodian 
inspects the campus for any unsafe conditions that 
need to be addressed before instruction begins.  
Every morning before the bus leaves the 
transportation barn, the custodian conducts an 
examination of the vehicle following a 
comprehensive safety checklist. On a daily basis, 

cafeteria, and school grounds. Restrooms are 
checked once during the day as a proactive 
measure in keeping facilities safe, sanitary, and 
stocked. Once a day, classrooms undergo a 
comprehensive cleaning which includes 
disinfecting student desktops, cleaning classroom 
sinks, and vacuuming. The custodian is capable 

staff. Belridge School™s custodians receive training 
regularly from supply vendors on proper use of 
chemicals, equipment, pest control, and cleaning 
practices.
 School Inspections
Schools are required by state law to conduct a 
formal inspection annually of designated areas 
and systems and then prepare a report on the 
current condition of facilities. Belridge Elementary 
School™s most recent inspection took place 
on 
 November 18, 2019; the School Site Inspection 

required inspection areas and discloses the 
operational status in each of those areas. During 
the 2018-19 school year, 100% of restrooms were 
fully operational and available for student use at 
all times.
During the 2019-20 school year, Belridge began 
the process of implementing Positive Behavior 
Intervention & Supports (PBIS).  PBIS is a multi-
tiered approach to social, emotional and 
behavior support.
Enrichment Activities
Belridge Elementary School offers a variety of 
enrichment and extracurricular activities to 
provide 
opportunities for students to explore their 
interests and talents with their classmates in a  fun 
and safe environment. 
A student or a small group of students may sign 
up for their turn for Reading with the Principal. This 
activity takes place every week in the board room 
for 30 minutes. A Book Club is offered twice a 
week during lunch time for grades 3-8. The 
superintendent/principal leads a variety of 
activities centered around language arts. 
Students learn good sportsmanship and teamwork 
through the physical education curriculum and 
monthly athletic competitions with other schools. 
During and after-school activities to promote 

Ł Accelerated Reader
 Ł Book It 
Ł Cinco De Mayo Celebration
Ł Exploration (Science)
Ł Guest Readers

Ł Math Family Night
Ł Monday Math (during lunch time)
 Ł Reading Pep Assemblies
     Ł Reading Round Up
Ł Reading Slumber Party
Ł Red Ribbon Week
Ł Science Family Night
Ł TK-4 Oral Language Festival
Ł Whiz Kids 
The Whiz Kids is a county-sponsored competition 
held annually for all small schools within Kern 
County.  Participating students in grades 5-8 read 
a selected unit or chapter from a designated math, 
language arts, or science textbook and join other 

competition.
   Class Size
The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by grade 
level, the average class size, and the number of 
classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 students, 
and 33 or more students. 
  






























































































Belridge Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Curriculum & Instruction
Sta˜ Development
All training and curriculum development at Belridge 
Elementary School revolves around the California 
State Standards. Teachers align classroom 
curriculum to ensure that all students either meet 

staff development decisions are made through a 
collaborative effort among school administration 
and teaching staff. When identifying staff 
development needs, the principal and teachers 
review a considerable range of data to discover 
what students need to be successful and how 
teaching staff can provide necessary support.  

Ł End-of-unit exams
Ł Parent input
Ł Progress reports
Ł Report card grades
Ł Student assessment results
Ł Teacher survey results
Ł Teacher input
Belridge Elementary School staff participate in 
non-student staff development days.  The chart 
below shows the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 
topics provided to school staff for professional 
development.
Supplemental staff development activities for the 
2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 school years are 
provided on early release Wednesdays for all 
teaching staff. Staff training is
 provided by the 
superintendent/principal, vendors, Kern County 


Ł Common Core State Standards
Ł Communication
Ł Discipline
Ł Math/Language Arts
Ł Professional Learning Communities (PLC)
Ł Student Study Teams (SST)
Ł Task
Ł Test Scores
Ł Whole Brain Learning
Ł Writing
Throughout the year, teachers attended 
professional workshops focused on the reading, 
science, and math curricula. New and veteran 
teachers are provided support through the Kern 


for ELD instruction and intervention activities. As 

individual performance is monitored closely and 

continued success. 
Students with special education needs are provided 
instruction in the least restrictive environment, 
based upon each student™s Individual Education 
Plan (IEP). Students have access to a 
comprehensive curriculum and are mainstreamed 
into the general education classroom or provided 
individualized support from instructional aides. 
Belridge Elementary School™s part-time resource 
specialist employs Response to Intervention 
strategies to provide one-to-one and small group 
instruction both in and outside the general 
education classroom; instruction is provided to 
under-performing students with and without an IEP, 
based upon their individual academic needs in all 
subject areas.
Two days a week one special education teacher 
shared by Belridge, McKittrick, and Midway School 
District™s visits Belridge Elementary School to 
provide individualized instruction in the general 
education environment. An IEP team for each 
student meets annually to 1) establish goals and 

students in a successful academic career,  3) 
evaluate the effectiveness of the student™s plan, 
and 4) make adjustments as necessary.
Belridge Elementary School District is part of the 
multi-district Kern County Special Education Local 
Plan Area (SELPA), which serves all school 
districts in Kern County. The SELPA allows 
participating school districts to pool resources and 

enabling Belridge Elementary School to meet the 
physical, emotional, and academic needs of its 
special education students. One of the SELPA™s 
speech pathologists and speech teachers are 
assigned to Belridge Elementary School. The 
speech pathologist visits the campus once a week 
to provide individualized services to designated 
students. The speech teacher visits the campus 
twice a week to provide individualized services to 
designated students.
Instructional Materials
All textbooks used in the core curriculum being 
aligned with the California State Standards. 
Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected 
from the state™s most recent list of standards-based 
materials and adopted by the State Board of 
Education.   
On October 8, 2019, the Belridge Elementary 
School District Governing Board held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks and 
instructional materials have been provided to 
students. The Board of Trustees adopted a board 

by Education Code §60119, that 1) textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English learners, in the district to 
the extent that each pupil has a textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class and 
to take home to complete required homework 

instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English learners, in math, 
science, history-social science, and English/
language arts, including the English language 
development component of an adopted program, 
consistent with the cycles and content of the 
curriculum frameworks. 
Students receiving instruction in health were 
provided their own textbooks or instructional 
materials to use in class or take home. Instructional 
materials used for health lessons are in alignment 
with the California State Standards. The district™s 
visual and performing arts programs are embedded 
into the TK-8 curriculum through interactive and 
hands-on activities; textbooks or supplementary 
materials are not required for instruction.






























receive job-related training from vendors and 

term substitute teachers are invited to site-based 
training while on assignment at Belridge Elementary 
School.  All staff are encouraged to seek additional 
training through professional organizations and 
academic resources.
School Leadership
The administrative element of Belridge Elementary 
School is comprised of the principal, who serves as 
the superintendent and is responsible for the day-
to-day operations of the school and overall 
instructional program. The superintendent/principal 

responsibilities associated with a successful TK-8 
program. 
Superintendent/Principal Tammy Reynolds has 

serving the Belridge Elementary School District for 
the past 30 years. At the beginning of the 2018-19 
school year, she began her 14th term as principal 
of Belridge Elementary School and superintendent 
of Belridge Elementary School District. Professional 

Ł Bachelor™s degree in general education
Ł Master™s degree in reading specialist
Ł Master™s degree in administration
Ł Clear Multiple Subject Teaching Credential
Ł Clear Crosscultural, Language and 

Ł Clear Administrative Services Credential
The School Site Council (SSC) meets seven times 
throughout the year and is comprised of school staff 
and parents. The SSC works together in developing 
the Single Plan for Student Achievement, 
discussing curricular programs, overseeing the 
school budget, and ensuring instructional 
components are consistent with students™ needs 
and comply with schoolwide goals.
Specialized Instruction
All curriculum and instruction is being aligned with 
the California State Standards approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every child receives a 
standards-aligned core program using research-
based instructional materials and strategies. The 
goal of every staff member is to ensure that all 
students are provided the support they need in 
order to experience academic success. Through 
teacher training, monitoring of student assessment 
results, and differentiation of instruction, all 
teaching staff deliver instruction to meet the 
individual learning and emotional needs of every 
student.
Teachers adapt classroom instruction to meet 
students™ individual learning styles when further 
assistance is needed for students scoring below 

assessments. Due to the school™s small enrollment, 
students frequently receive individual tutoring when 
necessary during school hours. During regular 
classroom instruction time, students may leave the 
general education classroom environment to work 
with instructional aides or with the resource 
specialist in a small group or on an individual basis 
in content areas of need. 
For students whose primary language is not English 

Elementary School offers a full English immersion 
program. Teaching staff work with English learners 
to help them acquire English as quickly as possible 
and prepare them to meet the state™s academic 
content standards.  All instructional aides are 
bilingual and available to help students in their 
primary language if necessary. Students are 


(ELPAC). Students receive differentiated instruction 
as needed and are grouped based upon reading 

(ELD) instruction which is provided for 35 minutes 
a day. Belridge Elementary School uses the ELD 
Belridge Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Belridge Elementary School is committed to providing state-of-the-art technology to all students and 
using technology as a resource to extend and enhance student learning. Each classroom is equipped 
with Chromebooks or iPads for each student, a document camera, and an LCD projector. Teachers use 
classroom computers and SMARTboards to supplement instruction and integrate technology into the 
language arts, science, social studies, and math curricula. Computers in the classrooms are used by 
students to access a variety of software programs to support skill building, remediation, and intervention 
activities. Each student is assigned to a Chromebook or iPad which is used to  enhance intervention and 
enrichment instruction. Teachers and students have access to three digital photo cameras for special 
school projects in alignment with the core curriculum.
Each classroom has their own library featuring a listening center and bean bag chairs to encourage 
independent reading activities. These libraries feature supplemental resources to support the core 
curriculum as well as new books to support the Accelerated Reader enrichment program. Library 

and resources for parents.
Remind and Class DoJo are used to communicate daily with parents and families.
Professional Sta˜
Teacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, Belridge Elementary School had two teachers who met all credential 

both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching outside 
subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; 

teachers who lack legal authorization to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc. 
Counseling & Support Services Sta˜
All school staff make every effort to meet the 
academic, emotional, and physical needs of 
Belridge Elementary School™s students. Special 
attention is given to students experiencing 

with personal or family issues, or having trouble 
making good decisions. The superintendent/
principal coordinates counseling, health services, 
and other professional services through the Kern 

SELPA.



























































































Belridge Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District Expenditures
Salary & Budget Comparison
State law requires comparative salary and budget 
information to be reported to the general public. For 
single school districts, disclosure requirements for 
teacher salaries is not required. For comparison 
purposes, the State Department of Education has 
provided average salary data from school districts 

ca.gov/ta/ac/sa/salaries0304.asp.
Expenditures Per Student
For the 2017-18 school year, Belridge Elementary  
School District spent an average of $23,994 of total 
general funds to educate each student (based on 


Code §41372). The table in this report 1) compares 
the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted 
(basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with 
other schools in the state, and 2) compares the 
average teacher salary at the school site with average 
teacher salaries at the state level. Detailed information 
regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at 
the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and 


services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities 
acquisition and construction, and certain other 
expenditures.)
In addition to general fund state funding, Belridge School District receives state and federal categorical 
funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, state, and local 

Ł Education Protection Account

Ł Other Federal Funds
Ł Special Education
Ł State Lottery
Ł STRS On-Behalf Pension Contributions
Ł Title I & II

























































SARC Data & Internet 
Access
DataQuest

dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional 
information about Belridge Elementary School and 
comparisons of the school to the district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest provides reports 
for school accountability, including but not limited 
to, CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
statistics.Public Internet Access Location
Parents may access Belridge Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the Internet using 
campus equipment or by visiting any of the 
county™s public libraries.  Parents may use either 

computer to obtain information from Internet 
resources; all individuals using school computers 
are required to sign the district™s Internet User 
Agreement (English and Spanish versions 
available).  The closest library to Belridge 
Elementary School is the Taft Branch Library 
located at 27 Emmons Park Drive, Taft.


            Sat. 9am to 5pm



Family Resource Center



The Family Resource Center offers a wide range 
of literature, reference materials, and books 
(children™s readers, educational, hobbies, 
cookbooks, magazines, healthy living, etc) for 
parents to check out.  Parents may also borrow 
any of the school™s digital photo cameras and the 
video camera.
Belridge Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
















































































































