Di Giorgio School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to Di Giorgio Elementary School. This 
school report card provides information to 
parents and the community about our school™s 
achievements, resources, students, and staff. 
We hope that this information will clarify our 
programs and our goals.  Di Giorgio has a 
tradition of academic excellence, with highly 
skilled and dedicated staff providing the 
rigorous curriculum that your child deserves. 
Reading is our focus, and we pledge to you that 
all students will learn to read by third grade. We 
believe that Di Giorgio students can and will 
excel in an environment that is tailored to their 
evolving needs.
DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONDi Giorgio School District is a small, rural 
single-school district which serves students in 
grades K-8. The school is located in the town 
of Arvin, about 25 miles southeast of 
Bakersfield. During the 2018-19 school year, 
211 students were enrolled;  52.2% qualified for 
English Learner support, 6.3% receive special 
education services, 1.3% homeless youth, and 
99.1% qualified for free or reduced-price meals. 
All staff members support the school™s mission 
to provide a challenging curriculum in a safe, 
nurturing environment where academic, social, 
and personal needs are met. 
Students and staff work very hard to increase 
achievement test scores to meet state and 
federal proficiency targets. The academic focus 
is on reading, writing, and math, employing 
research-based strategies in a standards-
based curriculum. Di Giorgio School places a 
strong emphasis on intervention; quickly 
identifying areas of weakness to deliver an 
instructional solution that encourages academic 
success.  
The campus environment embraces a college 
bound atmosphere which is demonstrated in the 
classrooms with the display of many college 
banners. Students are invited to attend field 
trips to local colleges and universities and 
explore the many options available to them in 
the future. 
MISSION STATE
MENTTo provide each student the opportunity to 
develop intellectually, emotionally, physically 
and socially in a safe and orderly environment.
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY
 PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP). The following components of this 
SARC address some of the priorities identified 
in the District™s LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are 
appropriately assigned and fully credentialed 
in the subject areas and for the pupils they are 
teaching; pupils have access to standards-
aligned Instructional materials and school 
facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the 
Textbooks chart; and School Facilities & 
Maintenance, including the Campus 
Description and School Facility Good Repair 
Status charts.













































Di Giorgio School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Conditions of Learning (Implementation of 
State Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  
Implementation of academic content and 
performance standards adopted by the state 
board for all pupils.  Not covered in the School 
Accountability Report Card.
Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  
Efforts to seek parent input in decision 
making, promotion of parent participation in 
programs for unduplicated pupils and special 
need subgroups.  Covered in Parent 
Involvement.
Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score on 
Academic Performance Index, share of pupils 
that are college and career ready, share of 
English learners that become English 
proficient, English learner reclassification rate, 
share of pupils that pass Advanced Placement 
exams with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils 
determined prepared for college by the Early 
Assessment Program.  Covered in California 
Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress, including the CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State 
Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic 
absenteeism rates, middle school dropout 
rates, high school dropout rates, and high 
school graduation rates.   Covered in Dropout 
Rates, including the Dropout chart; and 
Graduation Rates, including the Graduation 
Rate chart for high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil 
suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, 
and parents and teachers on the sense of 
safety and school connectedness.  Covered 
in Discipline & Climate for Learning, including 
Suspension & Expulsion chart; and School 
Site Safety Plan.
Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ 
State Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad 
course of study that includes all of the subject 
areas.   Not covered in the School 
Accountability Report Card.
Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil 
outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in 
Physical Fitness, including the Physical 
Fitness Test chart.
PARENT INVOLVE
MENTParents are encouraged to be involved in their 
child™s learning environment by attending 
school events, serving on a school committee, 
and volunteering at the school.  Staff welcome 
parents™ assistance  in the classroom, library, 
CampKeep chaperones, and with field trips.  
The following is a list of wonderful experiences 
for parents to interact with school staff while 
supporting their child™s efforts:
Ł  Athletic Events
Ł  Back to School NightŁ Christmas Tamale Sale (thru PTF)
Ł Magic Mountain 4-Pack of Tickets Raffle (at
  Christmas and Spring Barbecues)Ł  Kids™ Live
Ł  Open HouseŁ  Oral Language FestivalŁ  Pee Wee Olympics
Ł Pennies for PatientsŁ  Project ALERT
Ł  Red Ribbon ProgramŁ Running for Ronald (Bakersfield™s Ronald McDonald House)
Ł  Sixth Grade CampŁ  Sloppy Joe DayŁ  Student PerformancesŁ  Winter ProgramThe School Site Council, Parent Teacher Friends (PTF), and District English Learner Advisory 
Council provide opportunities for parents to take an active role in the decision-making process. 
Di Giorgio School™s main event (a long-standing tradition for over 65 years) is the annual spring 
BBQ. Students, their families, and the Arvin community are invited to the picnic to enjoy fun 
activities in celebration of the school™s many successes.
All school-to-home communication is provided in both English and Spanish.  Teachers contact 
parents directly to share student achievements or discuss concerns. Parents are strongly 
encouraged to attend parent conferences held twice a year to obtain important information about 
their child™s progress and discuss future goals. The school™s website features general information 
about the school, teachers, programs, and educational resources. Parents who would like more 
information about Di Giorgio School or are interested in participating in its learning community 
may contact the school office or principal at (661) 854-2604. 
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTDISTRICT
 BENCH
MARK
 ASSESS
MENTS
Di Giorgio School District administers its own set of student assessments (ﬁbenchmarksﬂ) to 
evaluate instructional programs and measure student proficiency using Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 
and Renaissance Learning resources. Benchmark assessments are in alignment with California 
State Content Standards and Frameworks. Benchmark assessments for English/language arts 
and math are administered four times a year to all students in grades K-8. Test results are used 
to 1) help teachers identify areas where instruction may or may not be effective, 2) guide 
classroom instruction, and 3) identify students who need targeted academic assistance or 
intervention.
CALIFORNIA
 ASSESS
MENT
 OF
 STU
DENT
 PERFOR
MANCE
 AN
D PROGRESS
The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 
significant cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration of 
the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 
student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and 
performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). 
The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district 
and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are 
shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that 
are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be 
found on the California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
























Di Giorgio School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card























































































Note: ELA & Mathematics test results include the Smarter Balanced Assessment and the CAA. The "Percent Met or Exceeded" is calculated by taking the total number of students who met or exceeded the standard on the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessment plus the total number of 
students who met the standard (i.e., achieved Level 3-Alternate) on the CAAs divided by the total number of students who participated in both assessments. 
An asterisk (*) appears in the table when the number of students is ten or less, either because the number of students in this category is too small for statistical accuracy or to protect student privacy. 
The number of students tested includes all students who participated in the test whether they received a score or not; however, the number of students tested is not the number that was used to calculate the achievement level percentages. The achievement level percentages are 
calculated using only students who received scores.
PHYSICAL
 FITNESS
In the spring of each year, Di Giorgio School 
is required by the state to administer a physical 
fitness test to all students in the fifth and 
seventh grades. The physical fitness test 
measures each student™s ability to complete 
six fitness tasks in six major areas. Students 
that either meet or exceed the standards in all 
six fitness areas are considered to be 
physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ 
Comparative district and state results can be 
found at the CDE™s website www.cde.ca.gov/
ta/tg/pf/.  
SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYSCHOOL
 FACILITIES
Di Giorgio School provides a safe, clean 
environment for learning through proper 
facilities maintenance and campus 
supervision. Ongoing maintenance and 
improvements ensure campus facilities remain 
up to date and provide adequate space for 
students and staff.  
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Repainting of the campusŁ Repave parking lotŁ Installation of automatic sprinklersSummer of 2019-20:Ł Install new door to office and fencing to 
  increase student safetyŁ Remodel of the student restrooms (completed    Summer 2019)



















CAMP
US
 SUPERVISION
As students arrive on campus each morning, 
a yard duty aide supervises playground 
activities until classes begin. Breakfast is 
available in their classroom each morning. 
During recesses and lunch, two yard duty 
aides supervise students in the cafeteria and 
on the playground. When students are 
dismissed at the end of the day, they are 
escorted to the bus area. Teachers remain in 
the loading zones until buses depart to ensure 
students leave campus safely. When the ﬁlate 
busﬂ arrives at 3:45 p.m. for students who 
remained after-school for extracurricular and 
extended-learning activities, teacher 
supervision ensures a safe student departure. 
Throughout the day, the superintendent/
principal assists with student supervision.
Each class is equipped with an alarm system. 
The principal, custodians, yard duty aides, 
bus manager, and office clerk carry cell 
phones at all times to facilitate routine and 
emergency communications. 
Di Giorgio School is a closed campus. During 
school hours, visitors are required to check in 
at the front office upon arrival and departure 
and wear a visitor™s badge during their stay. 
SCHOOL
 SITE
 SAFETY
 PLAN
The Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was originally developed for Di Giorgio School 
in collaboration with local agencies and 
district administration to fulfill Senate Bill 187 
requirements. Components of this plan 
include child abuse reporting procedures, 
teacher notification of dangerous pupil 
procedures, disaster response procedures, 
procedures for safe arrival and departure 
from school, sexual harassment policy, dress 
code policy, and bully prevention policy. Di 
Giorgio School™s most current school safety 
plan was reviewed, updated, and discussed 
with school staff in May 2019.
Campus culture promotes a secure learning 
environment that encourages mutual respect, 
safe and healthy relationships, dignity, and 
equality. Character and anti-bullying lessons 
are reinforced daily in and outside the 
classroom environment. The superintendent/
principal maintains an open-door policy for 
students and parents to report unacceptable 
behavior.   Bullying and harassment are not 
tolerated. The district has employed policies, 
procedures, and practices to reduce and 
eliminate bullying and harassment as well as 















Di Giorgio School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
the means to address such incidents when 
they occur. Students and their parents receive 
information annually regarding district policies 
concerning anti-bullying and harassment. 
Parents may visit the district™s website or 
contact the superintendent/principal for more 
information about the district™s bully prevention 
policy or Uniform Complaint Procedures.
CAMP
US
 M
AINTENANCE
Di Giorgio School is proud of its high 
standards regarding campus maintenance 
and general housekeeping practices. Staff 
and students enjoy the benefits of having a 
well-maintained campus.  
Di Giorgio School™s custodial staff are 
qualified and equipped to handle routine 
cleaning needs, general maintenance, and 
minor repairs. Following a standard cleaning 
schedule, two full-time day custodians, and 
one part-time day custodian are responsible 
for keeping the campus clean and fully 
operational. Two full-time day custodians are 
responsible for maintenance projects and 
repairs; larger projects are typically 
outsourced to third party trade specialists. 
One day custodian is responsible for daily 
cleaning of the cafeteria, common areas, and 
restrooms. Both day custodians share 
responsibilities for landscaping and 
groundskeeping maintenance. The principal 
communicates with the lead custodian daily 
to discuss cleaning needs, maintenance 
projects, and safety concerns. Emergency 
situations are given high priority and resolved 
immediately by custodial staff. 
Every morning before school begins, the day 
custodian inspects school facilities for safety 
hazards and maintenance issues that require 
attention before staff and students arrive on 
campus. Any graffiti or signs of vandalism are 
removed immediately. Restrooms are checked 
two to three times a day for cleanliness and 
cleaned if needed.  During the 2018-19 school 
year, 100% of restrooms were fully operational 
and available for student use at all times. 
FACILITIES
 INS
PECTIONS
The principal and school staff continually 
monitor the campus and its surrounding areas 
as a proactive measure in keeping facilities 
safe and clean. Teachers and the custodian 
conduct weekly safety inspections which 
include an examination of playground 
equipment. Schools are required on an annual 
basis to conduct a formal inspection of 
designated areas and systems as required by 
state law to report the condition of their 
facilities. Di Giorgio School™s most recent 
inspection took place on September 4, 2019; 
the School Facility Good Repair Status table 
illustrated in this report identifies the state-
required inspection areas and discloses the 
operational status in each of those areas.
CLASSROO
M ENVIRON
MENT
CLASS
 SIZE
TheAverage Class Size and Class Size 
Distribution table in this report illustrates the 
distribution of class sizes by grade level, the 
average class size, and the number of classes 
that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 students, and 
33 or more students. 
DISCI
PLINE
 & CLI
MATE
 FOR
 LEARNING
Di Giorgio School takes great pride in its  
discipline plan which is fair, restorative, and 
consistent. Staff strongly believe that students 
have the right to a safe learning environment 
that is free from disruptions. Each student is 
given the responsibility to help create and 
maintain a safe, stimulating learning 
environment. Realizing that students forget or 
have difficulty making good choices, Di Giorgio 
School™s discipline model offers students the 
opportunity to evaluate and correct 
unacceptable behaviors, restoring the 
classroom to a safe and enriching learning 
environment. 
Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the 
classroom when students are disruptive or 
demonstrating poor citizenship. Students who 
continue to make poor choices in conduct are 
referred to the principal.  For students who 
develop frequent instances of disruptive 
behavior, the principal, the student™s teacher 
and parent, and the student work together to 
develop a unique behavior contract which is a 
five-step process to correct inappropriate 
conduct. Consequences and disciplinary 
action are based upon the student™s past 
behavioral trend and severity of infraction. 
Discipline measures are consistently applied 
in a fair and firm manner.
Classroom management policies are combined 
with Positive Behavior Intervention and 
Support to foster a secure, family-style 
atmosphere for students and staff. Behavior 
expectation posters are posted around the 
campus and are focused on the following:
A - Always Safe
R - Respectful
M - Make Good Choices
O - On Task
R - Responsible
Students collect Dragon Scales which are 
handed out by staff for good behavior/choices 
and these scales can be used at Di Giorgio™s 
PBIS Award Store to purchase items.
School rules and behavior expectations are 
explained in the student handbook which is 
given to students and parents at the beginning 
































































Di Giorgio School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
of the school year. During the first week of school and thereafter as needed, the principal visits 
each classroom to discuss school rules, graduation requirements, incentive programs, and 
consequences for poor conduct. 
STU
DENT
 RECOGNITION
Students are given many opportunities to earn recognition for demonstrating good citizenship or 
meeting academic goals. 
Ł Reading is highly emphasized at Di Giorgio School; teachers have created incentive programs 
to promote reading at school and at home. Students may earn and accumulate points for the 
books that they read. As they reach designated goals, they are rewarded with a collector™s ﬁdog 
tagﬂ for their efforts. 
Ł Once a quarter, students achieving Honor Roll, Principal™s List, and Perfect Attendance are 
recognized at an awards ceremony.
Ł At the end of the year, Accelerated Reader trophies are given out, along with Battle of the Books 
and Perfect Attendance awards.
Ł A special field trip (Honor Trip) is taken to go bowling, a BBQ (all day event) is held for all 
students, and eighth grade students attend a field trip to Magic Mountain at the end of the year.
Ł Students are recognized weekly on Fridays for a Perfect Attendance award.
EXTRACURRICULAR
 ACTIVITIES
Students are encouraged to get involved in enrichment programs, extracurricular activities, and 
sports programs. Responsible students may enroll in leadership class held during school hours; 
participants visit colleges and universities. Intramural sports are incorporated into physical 
education classes. Enrichment activities during and after school include: art, Battle of the Books, 
and Pee Wee Olympics. Students must meet grade point average criteria to participate in 
intramural volleyball, flag football, basketball, soccer, and softball. Di Giorgio students participate 
in regional contests every year and have typically done very well. Students represent Di Giorgio 
School at the Henry Greve Speech Contest, Bank of America Essay/Speech Contest, and History 
Day.
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONINSTRUCTIONAL
 MATERIALS
All textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Di Giorgio School are being aligned with 
the California State Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected from the state™s 
most recent list of standards-based materials and adopted by the State Board of Education. 
On August 21, 2019, the Di Giorgio School 
District™s Governing Board held a public hearing 
to certify the extent to which textbooks and 
instructional materials have been provided to 
students. The Governing Board adopted  
Resolution #4 which certifies as required by 
Education Code §60119 that 1) textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to all 
students, including English learners, in the 
district to the extent that each pupil has a 
textbook or instructional materials, or both, to 
use in class and to take home to complete 
required homework assignments, and 2) 
sufficient textbooks and instructional materials 
were provided to each student, including 
English learners, that are consistent with the 
cycles and content of the curriculum 
frameworks adopted by the State Board of 
Education in math, science, history-social 
science, health, reading/language arts, 
including the English language development 
component of an adopted program. The 
district™s visual and performing arts programs 
are embedded into the K-8 curriculum through 
interactive and hands-on activities; textbooks 
or supplementary materials is are not required 
for instruction. 
STAFF
 DEVELO
PM
ENT
All training and curriculum development at Di 
Giorgio School District revolves around the 
California State Standards. Staff development 
concentrations are selected by the school 
administration and all teaching staff using 
results from SBAC assessments; CAASPP 
assessments; ELPAC assessments; DIBELS 
formative assessments; Renaissance Learning, 
Symphany Math and McDougal Littell Math 
proprietary assessments.
During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 
school years, Di Giorgio School encouraged 
teachers to participate in staff training activities 
held on minimum days and sub-release time.    
2017-18 Staff Development Topics:
Ł English Learner Strategies (thru KCSOS)Ł Positive Behavior Intervention and SupportsŁ Technology Training for SMARTBoards
2018-19 Staff Development Topics:
Ł Instructional StrategiesŁ Technology Training
2019-20 Staff Development Topics:
Ł English Learner StrategiesŁ Instructional StrategiesŁ Math Training (Symphony Math & Lexia)
Ł Science Curriculum Adoption
Ł Technology Training
All instructional aides and the librarian are 
invited to participate in staff development 
activities to help them better understand and 
support the school™s curriculum. Di Giorgio 
School™s support staff receive  safety and job-
related training at the county office of 
education. 
LIBRARY
 RESOURCES
The school library is staffed by one  classified 
staff member who serves as a part-time library 
clerk and part-time instructional aide.   The 
library clerk meets with a certificated librarian 
who is on contract in order to come up with a 
school library plan and improvements needed 
each year.  Di Giorgio School has contracted 
with the librarian to create a school library plan 
to meet the needs of the students. English and 
Spanish titles are available for students to 
check out. Supplemental resources include 










































































Di Giorgio School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł Tutoring: students may elect to take 
advantage of free tutoring services provided 
by four teachers, three days a week from 
3-4pm. For more information, parents may 
contact the principal or their child™s teacher.
Ł Reading Buddies: students in grades 5-8 are 
paired with an elementary student (K-4) to 
either read to the student or listen to a story.  
(Reading Buddies enrichment takes place 
weekly in an intervention elective class.)
Ł Math Intervention: During school hours, 
students who are performing below grade level 
standards are provided additional help and 
instruction in their math curriculum. 
Ł Teachers employ strategies and incorporate 
activities to help prepare students for high 
school and college. Students are introduced 
to and practice efficient note taking, 
organization skills, and effective reading 
techniques.
The special education program is staffed by a 
resource specialist teacher and four resource 
specialist aides. Instruction is provided in the 
least restrictive environment and based on 
each student™s Individual Education Plan (IEP). 
Students have access to a comprehensive 
curriculum and are mainstreamed into the 
general education classroom with in-class 
support by special education staff. The IEP 
team meets annually to 1) establish goals and 
objectives, 2) define academic instruction, 3) 
evaluate the effectiveness of the student™s 
plan, and 4) make adjustments as necessary. 
Di Giorgio School District is a participating 
member of the Kern County Special Education 
Local Plan Area (SELPA), which serves a total 
of 49 school districts in Kern County. The 
SELPA affords participating school districts 
and other county programs to pool resources 
and expertise in the field of special education.
PROFESSIONAL STAFF
COUNSELING
 & SUPP
ORT
 SERVICES
 STAFF
Di Giorgio School makes every effort to meet 
the academic, emotional, and physical needs 
of its students. Counseling support is provided 
by the principal and teachers. 
Di Giorgio School acquires highly qualified 
nonteaching support staff as needed through 
the Kern County SELPA for:























DVD™s, encyclopedias, magazines, video 
cassettes, Accelerated Reader, Reading 
Passport, and books on tape (for English 
learners). Six computers with Internet access 
are available in the library and generally used 
for Accelerated Reader testing and research. 
Students visit the library one to two times a 
week with their class and may visit the library 
independently during open library time.  
Reading is highly emphasized through the 
Accelerated Reader program and participation 
in regional spelling bees and writing contests.
TECHNOLOGY
 RESOURCES
During the 2018-19 school year, Di Giorgio 
School had a total of 50 desktop computers 
which equates to one computer for every three 
students. Second thru eighth grade has 150 
Chromebooks and equates to a one to one 
ratio. Each classroom has, on average, four 
computers (grades K-2) for student use and 
there is campus-wide WiFi access. Teachers 
use iPads to facilitate the integration of 
technology-based learning applications to 
enhance lesson delivery. Classroom 
computers are used for Accelerated Reader, 
word processing, research, skill-building 
activities, and Lexia Reading (online/self-
paced intervention and remediation program). 
Teachers determine the best methods to 
integrate technology into reading, math, 
language arts, science, and social science 
lessons in accordance with district technology 
curriculum standards. Kindergarten thru eighth 
grade classes each have a SMARTBoardŽ 
(interactive white board) which is used to 
enhance class lessons through graphics 
presentations. All teachers have access to two 
document cameras and two LCD projectors.  
Di Giorgio is in the process of updating all 
computers with Windows 10 software in order 
to have access to the most current technology 
available.
SCHOOL
 LEA
DERSHI
PLeadership is a responsibility shared among 
the Superintendent/Principal, leadership team, 
and parents.  The Superintendent/Principal, 
Mr. Terry Hallum, is responsible for the day-to-
day operations of the school, overall 
instructional program, and supervision of 
certificated staff.  
Superintendent/Principal Hallum has been in 
the educational field for over 29 years, and 
began his sixth year as Superintendent/
Principal of Di Giorgio in the 2018-19 school 
year. Previous positions include a K-8 teacher 
and high school math teacher. Professional 
certifications include:
Ł Bachelor™s degree in mathematics
Ł Clear Multiple Subject Teaching 
  Credential    Ł Clear Single Subject Teaching Credential
Ł Clear Administrative Services Credential 
Di Giorgio School™s Leadership Team is 
comprised of the Superintendent/Principal, 
Ryan Lubatti (Chief Business Official), a 
teacher representative for grades K-2, one 
representative for grades 3-5, and one 
representative for grades 6-8. Team members 
meet approximately once a month to address 
schoolwide issues, student achievement, and 
staff development needs. Grade level 
representatives serve as a liaison between the 
principal and grade level teams as well as lead 
program implementation efforts.
The School Site Council (SSC) is comprised of 
the Superintendent/Principal, classified staff, 
teachers, and parents. The SSC meets once 
each quarter and takes an advisory role in 
evaluating school programs and progress in 
meeting school goals. Team members serve as 
liaison between the school and community and 
are responsible for reviewing and approving the 
annual budget, school site plan, and school 
safety plan.
Parents, teachers, and classified staff 
collaborate three times a year as the District 
English Learner Advisory Council.  Members of 
this team monitor categorical funds, increase 
participation of EL students™ parents in the 
education process, increase awareness of 
post-graduation activities and help with the 
transition from elementary school to high 
school.
SPECIALIZE
D INSTRUCTION
All curriculum and instruction is being aligned 
with the California State Standards approved 
by the State Board of Education. Every child 
receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-
aligned curriculum. Di Giorgio School structures 
its educational program so that all students 
receive instruction appropriate to their learning 
level. To ensure the success of every student, 
teachers use a variety of instructional 
techniques using research-based instructional 
materials and strategies. 
Students identified as English Learners (EL) 
are placed with a teacher who has been 
certified to teach English learners. Instructional 
support is provided in and outside the general 
education classroom. One full-time resource 
specialist and two bilingual aides support EL 
students who are at the beginning stages of 
learning the English language. EL students 
receive a minimum of 30 minutes of English 
Language Development (ELD) instruction per 
day provided by the bilingual resource specialist 
and classroom teachers as part of English/
language arts, Corrective Reading, Language 
for Learning, and Language for Writing 
curricula. ELD instruction focuses on oral 
language development, reading skills, and 
vocabulary development. As students increase 
fluency in the English language, teachers 
continue to monitor student performance 
through ELPAC results and adjust instruction 
as needed to ensure continued success. 
Di Giorgio School offers many programs to 
support students not meeting grade level 
proficiency standards. Intervention and 
remediation programs are provided during 
school hours. The principal and classroom 
teachers meet regularly to evaluate student 
progress and to identify students performing 
below grade level proficiency standards. 
Identified students are then placed in a 
supplemental program that fits their academic 
needs and learning levels. Intervention 
strategies include:
Ł Reading: struggling readers, including EL and 
special education students, participate in a 30 
minute per day intervention in lieu of regular 
language arts instruction. Students receive 
small group instruction outside the general 
education classroom and from instructional 
aides, the librarian, or teachers. Instruction 
focuses on increasing reading comprehension 
skills, reading fluency, and decoding skills.
Di Giorgio School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł Health servicesŁ Occupational therapyŁ Adapted and physical therapy
Ł Psychological servicesŁ Vision, orientation, and mobility services
Di Giorgio School™s Community Values 
Program is designed to strengthen students™ 
connectedness to school, which is an 
important element for increasing academic 
motivation and achievement and for reducing 
drug use, violence, and delinquency. The 
Caring School Community employs a cross-
age mentoring approach to foster caring 
relationship through by pairing older and 
younger students for academic and 
recreational activities. 
TEACHER
 ASSIGN
MENT
During the 2018-19 school year, Di Giorgio 
School had nine teachers who met all 
credential requirements in accordance with 
state guidelines.  The chart below identifies 
the number of teachers at both the school and 
district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without 
full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject 
area of competence; 4) misassignments for 
English learners; 5) total teacher 
misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher 
positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers 
to the number of positions filled by teachers 
who lack legal authorization to teach that 
grade level, subject area, student group, etc. 
DISTRICT EXPENDITURESSALARY
 & BUDGET
 COMP
ARISON
State law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the 
general public. For comparison purposes, the 
State Department of Education has provided 
average salary data from school districts 
having similar average daily attendance 
throughout the state. In accordance with Ed 
Code 41409.3, single school districts are not 
required to disclose principal and 
superintendent salaries.
EXPEN
DITURES
 PER
 STU
DENT
For the 2017-18 school year, Di Giorgio School District spent an average of $11,370 of total 
general funds to educate each student (based on 2017-18 audited financial statements and in 
accordance with calculations defined in Education Code §41372). The table in this report 1) 
compares the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted 
(supplemental) sources with other schools in the state, and 2) compares the average teacher 
salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the state level. Detailed information 
regarding salaries and expenditures can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/
ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect the direct cost 
of educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, 
and certain other expenditures.)
In addition to general fund state funding, Di 
Giorgio School District receives state and 
federal categorical funding for special 
programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the 
district received federal, state, and local aid 
for the following categorical, special 
education, and support programs:
Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł  Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ  Other Federal FundsŁ  Special EducationŁ  State LotteryŁ  Title I
Ł  Title II
SARC DATA
 & INTERNET ACCESSDATA
QUEST
DataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about Di Giorgio 
School and comparisons of the school to the 
district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest 
provides reports for school accountability, 
including but not limited to, CAASPP results, 
Physical Fitness results, Suspensions and 
Expulsions, Dropout & Graduation Rates, 
enrollment, and staffing statistics.
PUBLIC
 INTERNET
 ACCESS
 LOCATION
Parents may access Di Giorgio School™s 
SARC and access the Internet at any of the 
county™s public libraries.  The closest library 
to Di Giorgio School is the Arvin Branch 
Public Library located at 201 Campus Drive, 
Arvin, CA 93203.
Arvin Branch Public LibraryNumber of computers available: 6Number of printers available: 1























17-18
18-19
19-20
Total Teachers
101010Teachers with Full Credential
1098Teachers without Full Credential
012Teaching Outside Subject Area 
(with full credential)
000Misassignments of Teachers of 
English Learners
000Total Teacher Misassignments*
000Teacher Vacancies
000






Teacher Credentials and Assignments
Di Giorgio School





























Di Giorgio School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
