Felton Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
FELTON
 ELEMENTARY
 SCHOOL
Grades PreK-5Norma Martinez, Principalnorma_martinez@lennoxk12.org                 10417 Felton Avenue, Lennox, CA 90304
(310) 680-8950 Ł  FAX (310) 573-6101 
http://felton.lennox.k12.ca.us SCHOOL
 ACCOUNTABILITY
 REPORT
 CARD
2018-19 S
CHOOL
 ACTIVITY
 PUBLI
SHED
 IN
 DECEMBER
 2019
PRINCIPAL
™S MESS
AGE
I am humbled by the opportunity to be the Principal of Felton Elementary School, where 
ﬁevery kid is a success storyﬂ as a result of having incredibly caring teachers, classified staff 
and community working as a united entity to foster student success.  At Felton Elementary School we follow the District™s Vision and Mission by ensuring our 
students are receiving a quality education in all content areas that will lead them to college 
as they pursue a career of their choice. ~We have high expectations for our students and 
they always rise to the occasion.  Our motto states, ﬁif you teach them, they will learn.ﬂ ~Felton Elementary School welcomes parents and partnerships from our neighbors who can 
contribute ideas, time, experiences and ongoing opportunities for our learners to grow and 
thrive in our ever-changing world.   Our friendly parent center is equipped with resources 
and a Parent Liaison who will guide parents who wish to volunteer.
The School of Engineering at Felton Elementary provides a unique experience to our 4th 
and 5th grade students who engage in project based learning from their teachers and our 
very own Lennox product Engineer!  Teachers are committed to teaching the California Common Core State Standards in a 
technology-centered classroom along with the best instructional practices.  Additionally, 
we provide Specialized Academic Instruction and related services in the least restrictive 
environment with a push-in/co-teach and pull out model.  Felton Elementary houses the 
Districts Horizon™s program and provides applied behavior analysis interventions to students 
requiring those supports in their educational development.The intervention programs that are offered to our students are data driven and students are 
given multiple opportunities to excel.  The learning opportunities that are available at Felton Elementary School and all students 
in the Lennox School District to thrive are simply unparalleled.  It™s an honor to serve my 
community.  
Respectfully,~
Norma MartinezDISTRICT
 VISION
The Lennox School District is dedicated to 
providing our students an education that emphasizes:Ł  Cradle to College - Preparing students   academically from birth to career.
Ł  Community - Embracing the role of parents   as partners in the educational process.Ł  Culture of Caring
 - Encouraging committed 
  employees to support students and their
   families socially, emotionally and academically.
Ł  Continuity - Entrusting that each generation 
  achieves and excels, and returns to the   Lennox Community to give back.DISTRICT
 MISS
ION
Every Lennox School District student will successfully transition to college or career.
Felton Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Felton Elementary hosts a state preschool program on campus. Children ages 3 and 4 
from income-eligible families are welcome 
to enroll.Felton Elementary School houses the Horizon™s Program, formerly known as the 
District™s Autism Program, which provides 
specialized instruction based on individual 
IEP™s. The program currently consists of three 
classrooms with a K-1, 2-3, and 4-5 combo 
classes.LOCAL
 CONTROL
 ACCOUNTABILITY
 PLAN
 (
LCAP
)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP) that supports the priorities for the state of California.  The following components 
of this SARC address some of the priorities 
:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł  Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
     assigned and fully credentialed in the subject 
    area for the pupils they are teaching.Ł  Pupils have access to standards-aligned      instructional materials; and school facilities 
    are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement (Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł  Efforts the school district makes to seek 
    parent input in making decisions for the 
    school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł  Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
   Assessment of Student Performance 
      and Progress (CAASPP) System, which 
       includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
     Assessments for students in the general 
    education population and the California 
      Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English 
       language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics 
    given in grades three through eight and 
   grade eleven.  Only eligible students 
    may participate in the administration of 
     the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with 
 SCHOOL
 PRO
FILE
Felton Elementary School serves students in 
grades pre-kindergarten (special education), 
and kindergarten through five following a 
traditional calendar. At the beginning of 
the 2018-19 school year, 526 students 
were enrolled, including 17.7% in special 
education, 47.1% qualifying for English 
Language Learner support, 96% qualifying 
for free or reduced price lunch, 0.2% foster 
youth, and 12.4% homeless youth. Teachers continue to employ small group 
math lessons and direct instruction to improve reading and math skills.  As part of the standard curriculum, one hour 
of language arts time is devoted to small 
group of instruction based upon students™ 
needs as determined by assessment results. 
Writing is seen throughout the various grade 
levels and we make daily writing instruction 
a priority at Felton.  Teachers at Felton School have implemented 
intervention programs to increase students™ 
reading and math proficiency levels.All teachers participated in comprehensive math training and coaching activities in 
preparation for the new State Standards. 
Professional development focused on bridging instruction to the new State 
Standards with emphasis on the ability to explain answers. Felton Elementary School 
a 1:1 ratio of iPads/Laptops for students to 
support daily access to the core curriculum; 
the iPads are stored on mobile carts and 
used by students in grades K-5. Felton 
Elementary School has two computer labs 
containing a total of 60 computers and a 
mobile cart containing 12 computers used 
for special education classes.     alternate achievement standards, which 
      are linked with the Common Core State 
      Standards (CCSS) (for students witht he 
     most significant cognitive disabilities).Ł  The percentage of students who have
   successfully completed courses that    satisfy the requirements for entrance 
    to the University of California and the 
   California State University, or career 
  technical education sequences or 
     programs of study.
Ł  The percentage of students who have 
   successfully completed courses that    satisfy the requirements for entrance   
    to the University of California and the 
   California State University, or career 
        technical education sequences or programs 
     of study.
   State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following 
information relevant to the State priority:Ł  High school dropout ratesŁ  High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate (Engagement)The SARC provides the following 
information relevant to the State priority:Ł  Pupil suspension ratesŁ  Pupil expulsion ratesŁ Other local measures on the sense of 
    safetyState Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil OUtcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following 
information relevant to the State priority:Ł  Pupil outcomes in the subject area of      physical education.PARENT
 INVOLVEMENT
Parents are encouraged to get involved in 
their child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating 
in a decision-making group, or simply 
attending school events. Parents stay 
informed on upcoming events and school 
activities through monthly newsletters, 
School Messenger, classroom newsletters, 
and the school website. The parent liaison 
organizes parent volunteer efforts. Contact 
the school office at (310) 680-8950 for more 
information on how to become involved in 
your child™s learning environment.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ†“
˘†‘
˘’


˘‘
•

˘
š€˘‡
˘“
€…ˇˇ
˘
€—˚˙

˘†
€ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

•˚ˇ„–

‡’“ˇ
˙ˆ˚
…ˇ”ˇ
‚

‚ˇ
™˙

˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
ˇ˘
Felton Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


“˝˙


˝˘ˆ˝˘
šššššššššššššššššššš’˝˘
šššššššššššššššššššš“’˙’€’˘˚
šššššššššššššššššššš’ˆˆ•˝˛’˘˚


˝‡˝’’˝˘ˆˆ’‘’ˆ…˙
šššššššššššššššššššš—–’˛ƒ˘˚˛ˆ’€˝˘’⁄
šššššššššššššššššššš’˝˙˙‹ˆ›˝˘˛


ˇ˘‰˙’–ˆ


˛ˆ‡’˛–ˆ›’˙’˛’


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˛˙
ˇ˙

ˆˆˆ˘˙˚˘˜ˇˆ˘†“˚
˘‘’š˘€‘
areas. Students that either meet or exceed the standards in all six fitness areas are 
considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative District and 
state results can be found at the CDE™s web site www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
CALI
FORNIA
 ASS
ESS
MENT
 OF S
TUDENT
 PER
FORMANCE
 AND
 PROGRE
SS
 (CAA
SPP
)The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general 
education population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with 
the most significant cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the 
administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are 
a measure of how well students are mastering California™s standards in English language 
arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and 
grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics 
utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned 
with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core State 
Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. 
Results are shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘
˚˘ˇˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ

ˆ
†
Volunteer To Help
Ł In the classroomŁ In the libraryŁ Teaching literacy skills using the iPad
Ł With student supervisionJoin Leadership GroupsŁ English Learner Advisory Council
Ł School Site CouncilAttend Special Events & Workshops
Ł Back to School NightŁ Cafecito/Coffee with the Principal 
   (monthly) Ł Common Core StandardsŁ English as a Second Language Classes
Ł Fall and Spring CarnivalsŁ Literacy NightŁ Math Family NightsŁ Open HouseŁ Parent ConferencesŁ Parent Education Workshops
Ł Student PerformancesŁ Trimester Grade Level Meetings
Ł Trimester Parent Community Meetings
STUDENT
 ACHIEVEMENT
PHY
SICAL
 F
ITNE
SS
In the spring of each year, Felton 
Elementary School is required by the 
state to administer a physical fitness test 
to all students in fifth grade. The physical 
fitness test measures each student™s ability 
to complete six fitness tasks in six major 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

ˆ
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙
˘˚˛ˆˆ˚˛ˇ˝†ˇˇˆˇˆ˝
˛
ˆ˙ˆ“˛ˇ˚˚
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
Felton Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł General CleaningŁ Restroom CleaningŁ Cafeteria Setup/CleanupŁ Debris RemovalŁ Routine Maintenance and Minor RepairsRestrooms are checked twice a day for 
cleanliness and subsequently cleaned 
as needed. The evening custodians are 
responsible for:Ł Office Area Cleaning
Ł Restroom CleaningŁ Classroom CleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff daily concerning maintenance and 
school safety issues.SCHOOL
 S
ITE
 S
AFETY
 PLAN
The Comprehensive School Site Safety 
Plan was developed for Felton Elementary 
in collaboration with local agencies and 
the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 
requirements. Components of this plan include 
child abuse reporting procedures, teacher 
notification of dangerous pupil procedures, 
disaster response procedures, procedures 
for safe arrival and departure from school, 
sexual harassment policy, dress code policy, 
and bully prevention policy. The school™s most 
current safety plan was reviewed, updated, 
and shared with school staff in Fall 2019.
SUPERVI
SION
 & S
AFETY
Student supervision, in the morning as 
students arrive on campus, is provided by the principal, the assistant principal, two teachers, and the counselor. During recess, 
four teachers monitor student behavior on the 
playground. During the lunch recess, three 
yard duty supervisors and administrators monitor students in the cafeteria and on the 
playground. When students are dismissed at the end of the day, the principal and the 
those categories that are blank in the tables, 
no students met subgroup criteria. More 
information on CAASPP can be found on 
the California Department of Education™s 
website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
SCHOOL
 F
ACILITIE
S & 
SAFETY
FACILITIE
S MAINTENANCE
The district takes great efforts to ensure that 
all schools are clean, safe, and functional through proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Felton Elementary 
School™s original facilities were built in 1987 
and completely renovated in 2001; ongoing 
maintenance and campus improvements 
ensure facilities remain up to date and 
provide adequate space for students and 
staff. 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˙ˇ

˙
˙˙

ˆ˙ˆ

ˇ
˙
“š€
˝†ˆˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Painting projects to the exterior of the  campusŁ Replacement of six old bungalows with six  new bungalows2019-20 Planned Campus Improvements:Ł Construction of a ten classroom building   (Measure Q - still in progress)District maintenance and site custodial 
staff ensure that the repairs necessary 
to keep the school in good condition are completed in a timely manner. A work order 
process is used by school and district staff 
to communicate non-routine maintenance 
requests. Emergency repairs are given the highest priority.  Every morning before 
school begins, the lead day custodian inspects facilities for safety hazards or 
other conditions that need attention prior to 
students and staff entering school grounds. 
One full-time day, one full-time evening, 
and one part-time evening custodian are 
assigned to Felton Elementary School. The 
day custodians are responsible for:assistant principal ensure students leave 
campus in a safe and orderly manner.
Many individuals visit the campus as 
volunteers or to participate in school 
events. To maintain a safe and secure 
environment, all parents and visitors are 
required to check in at the school office. 
Upon arrival, parents and visitors must 
provide picture identification, obtain and 
wear a visitor™s badge to be scanned 
through the Raptor System, and then return 
to the school office upon departure.
FACILITIE
S INSPECTION
SThe district™s maintenance department 
inspects Felton Elementary School on an 
annual basis in accordance with Education 
Code §17592.72(c)(1).  Felton Elementary 
School uses a school site inspection survey 
to identify unsafe or hazardous conditions 
and facility improvement needs. The most 
recent school inspection took place on November 26, 2018.  During fiscal year 
2018-19, all restrooms were fully functional 
and available for student use at the time 
of the inspection.CLA
SS
ROOM
 ENVIRONMENT
DISCIPLINE
 & 
CLIMATE
 FOR
 LEARNING
At Felton Elementary, all staff believe 
that a safe learning environment is an 
effective learning environment. Schoolwide 
discipline policies are founded upon the 
district™s assertive discipline model which 
clearly defines unacceptable behavior 
and consequences for poor conduct. 
˜˚˛˝˙˜ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘


˘

ˇ˙˛
˜˚ˇ˘˙˛
†“˘˚˙˛˛
‘“˙ˆˇ˘ˆ
’˙˛ˇ˛š˚˛
˙ˇ
ˇˇ
‘€ˇ



“
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆ˝˛ˇˆ
ˇ˛˝˚˚ˆˆˆ
˛˛˝˚˙˝ˇ˛
˝ˇ˙ˆˆ
˚˛ˇ˛ˆ˝
˛˝˝˛˘˚
˛˘˚ˇ
˘˙ˇ
’
•ˆˇ˘‡“
‘€˝“
Felton Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Teachers integrate the Character Counts 
Program strategies to promote respect and responsibility through daily instruction 
and activities.  Teachers have established 
individual, grade appropriate classroom 
management plans in accordance with assertive discipline policies. Concentrations 
are placed in redirecting behavior, allowing 
students to take responsibility for their 
actions and demonstrate self-control through 
good decision-making practices.At the beginning of the school year, 
school policies, safety rules, and behavior 
expectations are 1) outlined in the student 
handbook, 2) included in the Back-to-School 
packet, and 3) reinforced at discipline 
assemblies led by the principal. Throughout 
the year as needed, teachers remind students about their responsibilities to follow 
school rules and conduct themselves in a 
safe, responsible, and respectful manner.
Progressive disciplinary measures begin in 
the classroom when students are disruptive 
or demonstrating poor citizenship. A color-
coded card system is used as a visual record 
of student behavior; a red card signifies an 
instance of poor behavior. Students who 
continue to make poor choices in conduct are referred to the principal, assistant 
principal or the counselor.  
Felton Elementary School utilizes the Positive Behavior Intervention Support 
(PBIS) program as the foundation of a 
positive discipline approach.  The PBIS 
program provides comprehensive curriculum 
to promote responsible, safe behaviors 
as well as bully prevention strategies 
through the use of classroom activities, presentations, hands-on activities, and 
scripted weekly lessons.CLA
SS
 S
IZE
The Class Size Distribution table in this 
report illustrates the distribution of class 
sizes by grade level, the average class size, 
and the number of classes that contain 1-20 
students, 21-32 students, and 33 or more 
students.Wednesdays. Grade level committees meet 
once a month to plan future training sessions 
using results from student performance 
data, district assessments, teacher input, walkthroughs, and classroom observations 
to identify areas of strength and weakness. 
2018-19 Staff Development Topics:
Ł Advancement Via Individual Determination 
  (AVID) Strategies
Ł English Language DevelopmentŁ Intervention StrategiesŁ SWUN MathŁ Technology Training
Ł Wonders Implementation Workshops
Current research and training in instructional 
methodology and best practice helps 
teachers to improve their skills in order to provide students with the best possible 
educational experience. During the 2017-
18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 school years, 
Lennox School District offered a variety 
of professional learning opportunities for 
teachers and instructional aides. Teacher 
training topics included professional 
development on the following:˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ




ˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛
†
˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝˜
˜˝
˛˝
˙˝˜
˝
˙˝˜
˝˛
ˇ˝˜
˜˝
˛˝˜˙
˙˝
˝
˙˝˜˙
˝˜
ˇ˝
˜˝
˛˝˜˙
˙˝
˙˝
˙˝
˙˝˜
˜˘
˛˝˜˘˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ




†
‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
CURRICULUM
 & 
INSTRUCTION
STA
FF
 DEVELOPMENT
All curriculum and instructional improvement 
activities at Lennox School District are being 
aligned to the California State Standards. 
Staff development concentrations are 
selected and identified based on staff survey 
results, California State Standards, federal 
and state grant requirements, and student performance data. Teachers have agreed, as 
part of their contract, to acquire professional 
development on their own time to better serve 
their students. Therefore, district and site-
based staff development offerings are highly 
specialized and focus on the current needs 
of the district™s learning community.
During the 2018-19 school year, Felton 
Elementary School staff participated in 
professional development activities held 
throughout the year on early release 







































Felton Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2018-19 school year, the district 
also offered teachers the opportunity 
to attend supplementary professional 
development on the following:Ł Accessibility Supports
Ł Collaborative Teaching
Ł Dual LanguageŁ ELPAC
Ł English Language Development (ELD)Ł GoogleŁ NearpodŁ New Teacher Training
Ł Non Violent Crisis Intervention
Ł Special EducationŁ SWUN MathIn addition, the on-going collaboration 
between teachers and grade levels has 
been strengthened for our district and our 
academic programs. Our teachers have numerous opportunities to collaborate on 
best practices, grading, and discuss the 
best ways to meet the needs of all students. 
Lennox School District and three other 
local districts (Lawndale, Hawthorne, and 
Centinela) jointly support new teachers in 
developing their teaching skills through the 
New Teacher Induction Program, which is 
designed for first- and second-year teachers 
holding a preliminary credential to earn 
their clear teaching credential. The Peer 
Assistance and Review (PAR) program 
is designed to improve the education 
of students and increase the classroom 
performance of teachers, targeting both 
new and veteran teachers.Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. 
New teachers, experienced teachers, 
mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and 
support staff are encouraged to participate 
in workshops sponsored by the Los Angeles 
County Superintendent of Schools as well 
as the Lennox School District. Profession and subject specific offerings are consistent 
with the California State Standards.Long-term substitute teachers are invited to 
school-sponsored training activities. Classified 
support staff may receive job-related training 
from district representatives; training activities 
and workshops are designed to enhance 
and extend job performance.INSTRUCTIONAL
 MATERIAL
SAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Lennox School District are being 
aligned to the California State Standards. 
Instructional materials for grades K-8 are 
selected from the state™s most recent list 
of standards-based materials and adopted 
by the State Board of Education with the 
exception of SWUN Math which was adopted 
locally.  The district determined that SWUN math curriculum is in alignment with the state 
standards.  The district follows the State Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core 
content materials and textbook adoptions in foreign language, visual and performing arts, 
and health. The district follows the State Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core 
content materials and textbook adoptions in foreign language, visual and performing 
arts, and health.  On September 10, 2019, the Lennox School District™s Board of Trustees held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Board of Trustees adopted the 
Resolution Regarding Sufficiency 
of Instructional Materials No. 19-03
 which certifies as required by Education Code §60119 
that (1) textbooks and instructional materials were provided to all students, including 
English learners, in the Lennox School District to the extent that each pupil has a textbook 
or instructional materials, or both, to use in class and to take home to complete required 
homework assignments, (2) sufficient textbooks and instructional materials were provided 
to each student, including English learners, in mathematics, science, history/social science, 
and English/language arts, including the English language development component of 
an adopted program, consistent with the cycle, process, time lines, and content of the curriculum frameworks, and (3) sufficient textbooks or instructional materials were provided 
to each pupil enrolled in foreign language or health classes.In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for its visual/performing arts curricula. During 
the 2019-20 school year, Lennox School District provided all students enrolled in a visual/
performing arts class with their own textbook or supplemental materials to use in class and 
to take home. These materials comply with the state™s content standards and curriculum 
frameworks.PRO
FESS
IONAL
 S
TA
FF
TEACHER
 ASS
IGNMENT
During the 2018-19 school year, Felton Elementary School had 31 teachers who met all 
credential requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the 
number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without 
full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for 
English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The 
term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal 
authorization to teach that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚˛
˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝
˜˚˚˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘ˆˇ†
ˆˇ˝ˆˇ˝˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˚
“˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‘ˇ

ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
ˆ’
‡ˇ˘ˆˇ
‡˘˘‡ˇ˘
—–˘˘ƒ
ˇˇˆ⁄ˇ˘
˘‹˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘€˘˘
‘˘ˆ˘

Felton Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘

˘
ˆ˙
˘
ˇˇˆˇˇˆ
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ˜˚˜
˘‡ˇˇˇˇ˜
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˇ˜˜
˘–
ˇˇ˜ˇ˜ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ

⁄
COUN
SELING
 & S
UPPORT
 S
TA
FF
Felton Elementary School provides 
professional, highly qualified staff that provide 
additional services and support centered on 
the whole student academically, physically, 
and mentally. 
The Counseling and Support Services 
table in this report illustrates the availability 
of non-instructional support staff to Felton 
Elementary™s students. Full-time equivalent 
(FTE) is a standard measurement used to 
identify an employee™s regular work load 
on a weekly basis. For example, an FTE of 
1.0 designates a full-time position and the 
employee is on campus and available all 
day every day of the week; an FTE of 0.5 
indicates that the staff member is available 
and on campus a portion (50%) of the week.SARC
 DATA
 & 
ACCE
SS
DATA
QUE
STDataQuest is an online data tool located 
at http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that 
contains additional information about Felton 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.PUBLIC
 INTERNET
 ACCE
SS
 LOCATION
Parents may access Felton Elementary School™s SARC and access the Internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries or the 
Felton School Parent Center. The closest 
public library to Felton Elementary School is 
the Lennox Branch Library and Hawthorne 
Branch Library.
Lennox Branch Library4359 Lennox Blvd., LennoxPhone Number: (310) 674-0385Hours: Mon-Thurs: 11:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.
            Fri: 11:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
            Sat: 12:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.            Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 10
Hawthorne Library12700 South Grevillea Avenue, Hawthorne
Phone Number: (310) 679-8193Hours: Tues & Wed: 11:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m.
            Thurs: 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
            Fri & Sat: 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.            Mon & Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 16
Felton School Parent CenterOpen to Parents:  8:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.Number of Computers Available: 8
Printers Available: Yes
Contact the school office for more 
  information˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˝
˝
ˇ

˜
˝
ˇ
†
˝’

ˇ
š
ˆ˝ˇ••˛
‡˝ˇ
……˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

—˜˝˚˙˝ˆˇ˝˝
˝
–…š˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
Felton Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT
 EXPENDITURE
SSALARY
 & 
BUDGET
 COMPARI
SON
State law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the 
general public. For comparison purposes, 
the State Department of Education has 
provided average salary data from school 
districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state. (Note: 
2016-17 salary comparison data was the 
most recent data available at the time this 
report was published.)EXPENDITURE
S PER
 S
TUDENT
For the 2017-18 school year, Lennox 
School District spent an average of $13,415 of total general funds to educate 
each student (based on 2017-18 audited financial statements and in accordance with 
calculations defined in Education Code §41372). The table in this report 1) compares the 
school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) 
sources with other schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the 
average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and 
state levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the 
CDE web site at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown 
in the following table reflect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food 
services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.)







































In addition to general fund state funding, Lennox School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received 
categorical, special education, and support programs funds for: Ł After School Education and Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ Title I, II, III, IV
DISCLO
SURE
The statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the Lennox School District. At the time of publication, this report met 
all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data available. 
Data to prepare the instructional materials section and the school facilities section was 
acquired in December 2019. ˜˚˛˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ˚ˆ
ˆ
˘˛ˆ
ˇ˚ˆ

ˆˇ
“‘’šˆˇ
ˆˆˇ
‡ˆˇ—
–ˆˇ
“˚ˆˇ

ˇˆˇ
‡ˆˆ‹—
ˆˇ

˚ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
