Beverly Vista Middle School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to Beverly Vista School™s Annual School 
Accountability Report Card.  Over the past year, 
Beverly Vista School has been transformed from a 
PreK-8 school into a designated middle school 
serving students exclusively in grades 6 - 8.  This 
report provides a clear picture of the old Beverly Vista 
School.  A comprehensive report for Beverly Vista 
Middle School will be available in the Spring of 2021.At Beverly Vista Middle School, we are committed to 
educating students with an eye toward the future.  We 

focusing not only on academics but social and emotional development as well.  With our four pillars 
of character, we seek to help our students Build 
Resilience, Value Learning, Make Connections and 
Show Integrity.  Working in concert with our 
outstanding and supportive parent community, we 
provide our students with a wide array of opportunities 
for academic and social development including over 
17 clubs, a robust athletic program and a visual and 
performing arts program that is second to none.  As the African proverb says, ﬁIt takes a village to raise 
a child.ﬂ  At Beverly Vista Middle School we are proud 
of the village we are building in support of our 
students.  Together, we have created the safe and 
nurturing environment necessary for the development 
of a world-class school.  DISTRICT DESCRIPTION
western portion of Los Angeles, just below the Santa 
Monica mountains and next door to West Hollywood. 
Almost 4,000 students in grades transitional 
kindergarten through twelve receive a rigorous, 
standards-based curriculum from dedicated and 

comprised of four K-8 schools, one comprehensive 
high school, and one continuation high school. DISTRICT MISSION AND VISION
deliver a rigorous and enriching quality education, 
and prepare all students to thrive as productive 
citizens in a complex, changing world. All students will be inspired to act with integrity and 
realize their academic potential while achieving 
college and career readiness.SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONBeverly Vista Middle School is located in the southern 
region of the district™s boundaries and is considered 
a neighborhood school. Many of Beverly Vista Middle 
School™s students are the children and grandchildren 
of alumni who value the school™s long-standing 

year, Beverly Vista School served 688 students in 
grades PreK-8. Student enrollment included 14.7% 
receiving special education services, 10% qualifying 
for English Learner support, and 19.9% enrolled in 
the free or reduced-price meal program. The 
curricular program for TK-5 students is provided in 
a self-contained classroom while students in grades 
6-8 participate in a departmental rotation for their 
lessons.  In the 2019-20 school year, Beverly Vista 
became Beverly Vista Middle school for students 
in grades 6-8 throughout the district.Beverly Vista Middle School has received the 

Ribbon awards in recognition of its efforts in 
exceeding state and federal expectations. 
Everyone at Beverly Vista Middle School takes 
great pride in maintaining high standards of 
scholarship and citizenship. Student growth and 
achievement are the primary goals of school 
programs. Skilled and dedicated staff, motivated 
students, and supportive parents work together to 
achieve desired outcomes.SCHOOL MISSIONBeverly Vista Middle School™s mission is to provide 
students with a clean, safe, and nurturing environment in which they are afforded the 
opportunity to be educated by the highest quality educators who utilize up-to-date teaching strategies 
and state-of-the-art technology while ensuring 
academic rigor. Beverly Vista  prepares students to 
be critical thinkers, socially conscious, caring, and, 
engaged citizens of their communities who are 
prepared for high school, college, and the 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘“‘’
˘


˘
‡

˘•
’†˘‘
˘š
…ˇˇ
˘
’š—˚˙

˘’
ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

‡˚ˇ„–
š’’…ˇ”ˇ
‚

‚ˇ
™˙
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
ˇ˘
Beverly Vista Middle School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
professional world. Students at Beverly Vista are 
encouraged to take leadership roles while working 
collaboratively as part of a team that strives for a 
common goal.  Beverly Vista offers its students 
educational experiences that foster an appreciation 
of the diversity of its student body, the community, 
and the world. LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY
 PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, 
school districts are required to develop, adopt, and 
annually update a three-year Local Control and 
Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 
components of this SARC address some of the 

The SARC provides the following information 

assigned and fully credentialed in the subject area 
and for the pupils they are teaching;Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and School facilities are 
maintained in good repair
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the requirements 
of State Priority 2.
The SARC provides the following information 
Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek parent 
input in making decisions for the school district and 
each school site
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
[CAASPP] System, which includes the Smarter 
Balanced Summative Assessments for students in 
the general education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for English language 
arts/literacy [ELA] and mathematics given in grades 
three through eight and grade eleven. Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the 
CAAs. CAAs items are aligned with alternate 
achievement standards, which are linked with the 
Common Core State Standards [CCSS] for students 

Ł The percentage of students who have successfully 
completed courses that satisfy the requirements for 
entrance to the University of California and the 
California State University, or career technical 
education sequences or programs of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have successfully 
completed courses that satisfy the requirements for 
entrance to the University of California and the 
California State University, or career technical 
education sequences or programs of study.
The SARC provides the following information 
Ł High school dropout rates; andŁ High school graduation ratesThe SARC provides the following information 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ
˚˚


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

ˇ
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ‘“˚˛ˇ˝
šˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ
ˆ˙ˆ€˛ˇ˚˚
Ł Pupil suspension rates;Ł Pupil expulsion rates; andŁ Other local measures on the sense of safety
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the requirements of 
State Priority 7.
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information relevant 
Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of physical 
educationPARENT INVOLVEMENTParents are encouraged to get involved in Beverly 
Vista Middle School™s learning community by 

attending school events, or sharing in the decision-
making process. Parents may coordinate classroom assistance directly with their child™s teacher. Back to 

House, student performances, Run for Success, and 
graduation ceremonies provide opportunities for 
parents to interact with school staff while supporting 
their child™s efforts. The School Site Council, English 
Learner Advisory Council, and Parent Teacher 
Association provide opportunities for parents to have 

Through the PTA, Beverly Vista Middle School 
sponsors parent education workshops for parents 
seeking a more in-depth understanding of the 
school™s educational environment and programs; 
workshop topics are driven by parent interest. More 
information about becoming an active member in the 
school community can be obtained from any staff 

(310) 229-3665.School-to-home communication takes place in a 
variety of formats. The PTA issues weekly electronic 
newsletters (E-Tree
) featuring highlights of recent 
events, upcoming activities, safety and attendance 
reminders, and special announcements. The principal 
sends out regular informational messages regarding 
academic programs and topics regarding safety. A 
monthly calendar of events including the food 
services menu is available online. Many teachers 
prepare newsletters, JupiterGrades or use email to 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛†“‘’š
‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ˘
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛—˝
ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛†“‘€š†“ˆ
…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ

†ˆ“
‘
update parents on classroom activities and assignments. Aeries Communication is an Internet-
based telephone messaging system that forwards 
personalized messages from school staff to each 
student™s home. 
Parents are encouraged to contact school staff 
through email and check the school™s website for 
valuable information about the school, PTA, staff, 
and schedules. On occasion, large banners are 
displayed in prominent locations on campus to promote school events and announce special 
activities and messages. Parents may access current grades, academic progress, and attendance 
records for their child through the JupiterGrades 
portal on the school™s website. Beverly Vista 
Elementary™s combined student body speaks over 
20 languages at home; when necessary, school-to-
home communication is provided in other languages 
as well as English.STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTCALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE AND PROGRESS (CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance 
and Progress (CAASPP) System includes the 
Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments 
(SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate 
Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 

students may participate in the administration of the 
CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards, which are linked with the 
Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP 
results are a measure of how well students are mastering California™s standards in English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and 
are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in 
ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-
adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs 
test items are aligned with alternative achievement 
standards which are linked with the Common Core 
State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include 
overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in 
each applicable subgroup. Results are shown only 
for subgroups with ten students or more taking the 
Beverly Vista Middle School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˚˙˙˛ˆ˜˛˛ˆ˜˛
˛ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
˛ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˚˙˙˛ˆ˜˛˛ˆ˜˛
˛ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
˛ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛˘˛ˆ˜˛


˝


‘˝˙


’˙šˆˆ€˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••˝˘


‘˚
••••••••••••••••••••…‡˝˘ˆˆ—˝˛˘˚


…˝–˝˘ˆˆ€ˆƒ˙˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••⁄˛
“†“
“†“
˜–˚ˆˆ›


˚˘˝˙˙−ˆ‰˝˘˛


ˇ˘”˙‹ˆ˘


˛˘˛ˆ–‹ˆ‰˝


‘˛ˆ‚˛‹
••••••••••••••••••••˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘˙ˇ˘˘˙˙˙ˇ˘˙˙
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˘ˇ˙˚˘•ˇ

˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
exam. For those categories that are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More 
information on CAASPP can be found on the 

cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of each year, Beverly Vista Middle 
School is required by the state to administer a 



in six major areas. Students that either meet or 





SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEBeverly Vista Middle School provides a safe, clean 
environment for learning through proper facilities 
maintenance and campus supervision. Original 
school buildings were constructed in 1924; since 
that time, original buildings have undergone a 
series of improvements due to earthquakes in 1933 
and 1994. In 1995, three of the school™s buildings 
were vacated and replaced with a new structure in 2002. Ł Upgrades to the interior security camerasŁ Installation of turf to the ﬁReading Greenﬂ areaŁ Continuation of installing drought resistant    landscapingŁ Installation of a shade structure in the main    playgroundSUPERVISION & SAFETY

and after school.  As students arrive on campus, playground assistants monitor 6-8 the campus areas to ensure 
an orderly arrival of students to their classrooms. 
The school sponsors lunch-time activities in the 
atrium; some students visit the library during their 
lunch period. When students are dismissed at the 
end of the day, two playground assistants and 
administration are stationed at the main exit gate to 
ensure students depart in a safe and orderly 


The principal, assistant principal, custodian, and 
playground assistants carry cell phones and walkie 
talkies to facilitate routine and emergency 
communications concerning student safety.   
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers or 
to participate in school events. To maintain a safe 
and secure environment, all parents and visitors are 

arrival.SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was 
developed for Beverly Vista Middle School in 
collaboration with local agencies and the district 

Components of this plan include child abuse 

dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response 
procedures, procedures for safe arrival and departure from school, sexual harassment policy, 
and dress code policy. The school™s most current 
school site safety plan was reviewed, updated, and 
shared with school staff in August 2019.
FACILITIES MAINTENANCESchool custodial staff and the district™s maintenance 
and operations department (M&O) work together to 
ensure playgrounds, classrooms, and campus grounds are well-maintained and kept safe and 
functioning for students, staff, and visitors. Monthly 
M&O meetings facilitate discussions concerning 
safety issues, maintenance needs, cleaning 
practices, and training. Monthly safety walks are 
conducted by the administrators and the lead 
custodian to identify any safety work that needs to 
be done on campus. Custodians are required to 

approved cleaning standards and policies outlined 
in the custodial handbook. Parents who wish to review the district™s policies may contact the 


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝

ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝†˙“˛‘‘˝‘
˙˚˙“˛‘‘˝‘
€˙˚‘˝‘˙•‘˙ˇ‘˚‡
‘‘˙…
—˙–˘
“˚˝˙⁄˛š
˝˘ˇ†˙‹›˙˛†ƒ−˘˚˝˙‘˚
“˚˝˘˛
˘ˇ†
ˆ
⁄˘š˝˛˝
‰˘ƒˇ˝˚˙
‰ˇ‘˘˙
„˘‘−˙⁄˚˛˝
˙
”−˚˝˙‚–˙
‘−˙
˝−˙
˝˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
MEASURE BH BONDIn June 2019, the Beverly Hills community approved 
a $385 million general obligation bond (Measure BH) 
to continue the modernization and safety-related 

elementary, middle and high school facilities that 


the opportunity to start new work that the Measure E 
bond was unable to fund.  Projects to be funded with 
Measure BH will be reported in the 2019-20 SARC to be published in January 2021.MEASURE E BOND
approved a $334 million general obligation bond 
(Measure E) to facilitate modernization and safety-


are no activities to report for the 2018-19 or 2019-20 
school years for Beverly Vista Middle School.
Beverly Vista Middle School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Maintenance & Operations (M&O) employs a work 
order process enabling Beverly Vista Middle School 
to communicate unscheduled maintenance needs, 
urgent repairs, or special projects. Teachers and 
staff submit requests to the principal or designated 

work order to M&O for resolution; in some cases, 
teachers will contact the custodian directly to 
address minor projects. Emergency situations are immediately resolved either by the school custodian 
or district maintenance staff; general requests are 
typically addressed within two weeks.   Campus facilities are cleaned daily; one full-time day custodian, three full-time evening custodians, 
and one day groundskeeper are assigned to Beverly Vista Middle School and work closely with 
the principal for routine maintenance, daily custodial 
duties, and preparation for special events. The 
principal and lead custodian communicate daily 
regarding campus cleaning needs and safety 
concerns. Every morning before school begins, the 
lead custodian inspects the facilities for safety 

removal prior to students and staff entering school 
grounds. The day custodian is responsible for general 
upkeep of campus and keeping restrooms, 

an orderly and secure condition. The day custodian 
checks restrooms frequently throughout the day to 
ensure they are in sanitary condition and properly 
stocked. The evening custodians are responsible 
for comprehensive cleaning of classrooms, 

daily duties include cleaning student desktops. One 
groundskeeper is assigned to the Beverly Vista 
Middle School and is responsible for general 
landscaping and irrigation projects. FACILITIES INSPECTIONSBeverly Vista Middle School works closely with the 

(M&O) for larger projects, routine facilities 
maintenance projects, and school inspections. The 
most recent facilities inspection at Beverly Vista 

The Facility Inspection table illustrated in this report 

disclosing the operational status in each of those 

were fully functional and available for student use 
at the time of the inspection.The School Facilities & Safety section of the SARC 

(OPSC) Facility Inspection Tool (FIT). The FIT uses 

based on exhaustive structural analyses.  Under 
the FIT criteria, all buildings have been rated as 
either ﬁGoodﬂ or ﬁFair,ﬂ except three spaces that 
have already been closed down pending planned 
upgrades.Through structural analyses, 14 buildings/spaces 


are being completed under Measure E, with the 

In addition to the buildings  eligible for SMP, other 
buildings are being either modernized or replaced 
under Measure E, or a future bond. CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGSchool staff supports an environment that teaches 
students, through the daily curriculum, the skills to 

decisions.  Character education instruction and discipline models are based upon the district™s 
character education program, the Pyramid of 
Success, character development program created 
and successfully utilized by famed UCLA basketball 
coach John Wooden.  Each month students focus 
on the blocks that make up the pyramid such as 


˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

“ˇ‘
’š
Beverly Vista Middle School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Beverly Vista Middle School offers supplemental 

teachers and students. Training during the school 
year took place on late start Wednesdays. 
Throughout the year, administration and teaching 
staff worked as a collaborative body to monitor and 
evaluate progress of meeting schoolwide goals under the direction of the school™s instructional 

Beverly Vista Middle School focused on the following 
Ł Assessing Student Behavior 
Ł CAASPP Training

Ł Flexible Student Groups Based Upon Formative   Assessments
Ł Instructional Technology in the Classroom
Ł SafetyŁ Technology in the Classroom


professional development days, which focused on 
common assessments and how best to utilize these 
assessments to monitor student progress (grades K-12). A portion of training activities were led by 
administrators and educational consultants at school 
sites and at articulation meetings held in various 

workshops offered during the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 


and veteran teachers in developing their teaching 


second-year credentialed teachers and provides 

Teacher Orientation is provided over a two-day 
period at the beginning of the school year for all 


overview of general policies and practices; 
curriculum and instruction; and technology based tools.  The Peer Assistance and Review program is 
designed to improve the education for students and 
increase the classroom performance of teachers, 
targeting both new and veteran teachers.The principal encourages teachers to attend 
professional workshops and conferences in their 

teachers, mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, 
and support staff are encouraged to participate in 
workshops sponsored by the Los Angeles County 

receive additional job-related training from vendors, 
department supervisors, and district representatives. 
Hard Work & Enthusiasm, Friendship & Loyalty, 

Alertness & Action, Fitness & Skill, Team Spirit, 

month the corresponding trait is emphasized in 
themed activities and class discussions. All school 
staff encourage students to practice the Pyramid of 
Success while at school and at home. This program 
will further be supported by a partnership with the 
Maple Counseling Center which works with Beverly 
Vista students in various grade levels.
Middle school students in 8th grade will engage in 

be led by the school counselor, and will participate 

to this program students in grades 4-8 will be 
exposed to college and career paths through a 
speaker series comprised of professionals in 

exposed to college and career paths in various 
activities.Teachers have established grade-appropriate 
classroom management and incentive programs 
based on general school rules to maintain an 
effective learning environment. School and 
classroom rules are posted in the classroom. 
Behavior expectations are outlined in the student 
handbook (also available on the school™s website). 
Students are provided with an ﬁAgendaﬂ which includes school policies, a student planner, and 
areas for parents to regularly correspond with their 
child™s teacher. School rules are covered at parent 
orientation meetings for all students. At the 
beginning of the school year, teachers review 


principal conduct grade level assemblies to 
reinforce school rules, safety procedures, 
consequences for poor behavior, and academic 
expectations. Students are reminded to conduct 
themselves in a responsible, respectful manner as 
needed by their classroom teachers and at school 
assemblies.Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the 
classroom when students are disruptive or 
demonstrating poor citizenship in the classroom. Students who continue to make poor choices in conduct are initially referred to the assistant 
principal; consequences and disciplinary action are 
based upon the student™s past behavioral trend and 


are in accordance with the school district™s 
progressive discipline policy. Beverly Vista began 
to employ the Positive Behavioral Intervention & 
Supports (PBIS) system beginning in the 2018-19 
school year and continues with this system in 2019-20. ENRICHMENT ACTIVITIESStudents are encouraged to participate in  Beverly 
Vista Middle School™s extracurricular activities as 
well as take advantage of city-sponsored programs. 
These activities promote positive attitudes, encourage achievement, and instill a sense of 
belonging among students. Students are 

government, Youth in Government, various 
academic competitions, choir, band, and service 
learning opportunities for enrichment. Middle school 
students are given the opportunity to participate in 

STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and 

spend three days at the Catalina Island Marine 

at the Yosemite Institute. 

sponsors after-school day-care programs that 
feature fun and engaging classes, educational 
enrichment, and Adventure Camp. 
˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˛˝˘˝˙˜
˜˛˛˘˝
˙˛˛˛˘˝
˙˙˛˝˘˝
˝
˙˝
˙ˇ˛˜˘˝
˜˛˛˘˝
˙˛˛˙˘˝
˙˙˛˝˘˝
˝
˙˝
˙ˇ˝˙˜
˜˝˙
˛˛˜˘˝˛˜
˙˝
˛˝˘˝˜˙
˝
˙˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘
ˇ






“‘’
˛˝˜š˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
CLASS SIZE

illustrate the distribution of class sizes by grade level, 
the average class size, and the number of classes 
that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 students, and 33 or 
more students.CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTAFF
 DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement activities 

the California State Standards. Staff development 

the results of staff surveys, state assessment results, 
and administration/teacher input.  ˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙
ˇ˘
˜˚
ˇ˘
˘˘˘˘
˘˘˘
˘˘
˘“†˘
˘˘’˘š€•
˘‡˘˘
˘˘•˘
˘…˘˘˘“˘“˙—
˘˘˘
˘˘˘–†˘
˘—ƒ⁄‹
˘⁄…˘˘
†
˘˘⁄˘›˘—†
˘⁄—˘›˘⁄˙
˘−ƒ…˘‹ƒ˘˘
˘˘š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˜˚˛˛˛˝˚˝˛˝˝˙
ˆ
˝

˝

˝
˝
ˆ
˝



˛˝
˝
ˆ


˝

˛˛˝
˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˇ˘
˘ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘
˘
˘ˇ˘˘˘˘˘˘
˝˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘
˘




“‘
’“
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

Beverly Vista Middle School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card

INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS

aligned to the Calfornia State Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected from the state™s 
most recent list of standards-based materials and adopted by the State Board of Education. Instructional 
materials for grades 9-12 are standards-based and approved by the district™s Board of Education. The district 
follows the State Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core content materials and for textbook adoptions 

occur the year following the state™s adoption. For a period of 30 days prior to adoption, parents may visit the 

certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been provided to students. The Board 

that (1) textbooks and instructional materials were provided to all students, including English Learners, in 
the district to the extent that each pupil has a textbook or instructional materials, or both, to use in class and 

were provided to each student, including English Learners, in math, science, history-social science, and 
English/language arts, including the English language development component of an adopted program, 


laboratory science equipment was available for science laboratory classes offered in grades 9-12 inclusive. 


enrolled in elective classes were provided with a textbook or supplemental materials to use in class and to 
take home. These materials are in alignment with the California State Standards.
SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Beverly Vista Middle School is a 
responsibility shared among school administrators, 
instructional staff, and parents. Teamwork between 
the principal and assistant principal ensures both 
curricular and operational components of Beverly 
Vista function properly. The principal is responsible 
for the day-to-day operations and overall 
instructional program; the assistant principal shares 
many of the duties associated with running an 
effective school, however, primary responsibilities 
include managing attendance and student discipline 
issues, special education programs, school safety, 
the master schedule, and coordinating student 
success team meetings. Supporting the principal and assistant principal with 
the decision-making process and curriculum 
programs is the Instructional Leadership Team and 
Technology Advisory Committee (BVTAC).  An 
interdisciplinary team of teachers representing all 
grade levels meets four to six times a year  to 
develop school goals, develop strategies toward 
achieving school goals, organize staff development 
activities, and obtain input/feedback on current trends of classroom practices. The BVTAC creates 
a vision of instructional technology to be used on 
campus and is a part of the decision making for 
technology purchases.Grade level teams meet once a month during 
common prep periods to discuss student 
performance and collectively address inquiries 
concerning instructional strategies and programs. 
Subject area teams meet once a month to facilitate 
unity and consistency across the curriculum.The School Site Council (SSC) is comprised of 
parents and meets periodically. The SSC is 
responsible for reviewing and approving the school 
site plan, the school safety plan, and annual budget. 
Council members serve as a liaison between the 
school and community.
SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is currently being aligned to the California State Standards approved by the State Board of Education. Every child receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-
aligned core program. Beverly Vista Middle School 
structures its educational program so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their 
learning level. To ensure the success of every 
student, teachers use a variety of instructional 
techniques using research-based instructional 
materials and strategies. Students who regularly experience academic, 

referred to a Student Success Team (SST).  The 
team is responsible for addressing barriers that 
impact the ability of a student to perform at his or 
her best in school, recommending intervention 
strategies/services to meet the child™s unique 
needs, and subsequently evaluating progress and 
modifying instruction as needed over time. A variety 
of strategies are considered to help promote 
academic success and may include but are not 
limited to differentiated class instruction, small 
group instruction outside the general education 
environment with resource specialist staff, and/or 
counseling.Beverly Vista Middle School™s special education 


four K-8 special education teachers and numerous 
instructional assistants who provide appropriate 
instruction for students with an IEP in a variety of 
settings.  Special education students are 
mainstreamed as much as possible into the general 
education classroom and provided instruction in the 
least restrictive environment. Each student™s 
curricular agenda is based upon their Individual 
Education Plan (IEP), which is reviewed and 
updated annually by the school™s IEP teams. The 
IEP ensures students with disabilities have equal 
access to core curriculum and educational 
opportunities and coordinates specially-designed 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘†
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’ˇ˘ˇ€˘•
ˆ˘
‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘
••˘—˘–˘˘•ˇ
ˆ˘˛⁄˘˜˘‹˘“˘‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘••˘—˘–˘˘

ˇˆ˘˜˘‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˇ—˘–˘
–˘
‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„–
”ˇ„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„‚˘
—˘
ˇ„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„
„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘ˆ
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘•ˆ˘ˆ
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘’ˇ˘ˆ
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„ﬂ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„€ˆ˘’ˆ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„€‹˘Ł„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘ˆˇ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘•
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘Ł
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–˘˘ﬂ
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–ˆƒ˘˘ﬂ
˘‹˘
ˆ†
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–ˆƒ˘‚˘
–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
”ˇ

ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘

’ˇ˘ˆˇ
’˘˘’ˇ˘
ﬂ˘€˘Œ
ˇˇ€ˆıˇ˘
˘–˘
ˇ
™˘˘
”˘ˆ˘

Beverly Vista Middle School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
instruction based upon individual academic, social, and/or behavioral needs.   Two speech and 
language therapists, one school psychologist, one 
part-time occupational therapist and one part-time 
adaptive physical education specialist are on staff 
to provide necessary services to Beverly Vista 
Middle School™s special needs students. 


state to teach English Learners and are provided 
differentiated instruction in the general education 
classroom and for some students in a dedicated EL 
classroom. EL students in grades 6-8 may be 

elective and as a supplement to their regular 

levels focuses on language development, reading 
skills, vocabulary development, reteaching class 
lessons, and front-loading for future lessons. As 

Beverly Vista Middle School continues to monitor 
their performance through the ELPAC and adjusts 
instruction as needed to ensure continued success. 
Beverly Vista Middle School offers a Gifted and 
Talented Education program for students  who have 
been recognized as high achievers by their teachers 
and through district testing.  The goal of the GATE 
program is to provide original, interdisciplinary curricula that challenges and inspires gifted 
students.  The curriculum is differentiated to provide 
a variety of instructional strategies structured so that 
individual student experiences/activities can vary in 
acceleration, depth, complexity or degree of novelty. 
Beverly Vista Middle School hosts a series of 
intervention programs to meet the needs of those 

reading, language arts, and math. A 
recommendation for student participation in one or 
more of Beverly Vista Middle School™s intervention 
programs typically comes from the Student Success 
Team, instructional staff/teachers, or the student™s 
parent based upon classroom performance or state/district assessment results.  Intervention strategies 


level or below on state reading assessments are 
enrolled in reading and math intervention in the 
reading/math intervention program. 

PROFESSIONAL STAFF
TEACHER ASSIGNMENT

the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject 
area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant 

legal authorization to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.SUPPORT SERVICES STAFF
Support service staff consists of school counselors, 
psychologists, and nurses. This expert team of support 
service staff, through close collaboration, is 
instrumental in improving student attendance and 

remediation of health and/or emotional concerns. In addition to providing academic guidance, school 
counselors conduct classroom visits to discuss social 

diverse issues interfering with a student™s ability to 
learn and succeed in school. Beverly Vista Middle School welcomes volunteers from 
the city™s Maple Center, a regional counseling center 
that sponsors activities with the students, discussing 
psychologists are available to assist with academic, 
social, and emotional issues as well as provide needed 
psycho-educational assessments to determine 
eligibility for special education services and to facilitate 
coordination of Individual Education Plans (IEP). 
School nurses conduct health screening programs; ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆ˝˚ˆ˚ˆ˘
ˆ˝˚ˆ˚ˆ˘
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇˇ˜ˆ˜ˆ˘˘€…
ˇ˜—˝—˘–
ˇˇ˜˜ˇˆ
⁄‹ƒ›−
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

ˇ

ˆ˝˜

ˇ



“˝ˆˇ

‘˝ˇ

ˆ’˝ˇ


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙
˙˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
Beverly Vista Middle School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SARC DATA
 & ACCESSDATA
QUEST
dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional 
information about Beverly Vista Middle School and 
comparisons of the school to the district, the county, 

school accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 

PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATION
Parents may access Beverly Vista Middle School™s 
SARC and access the internet at any of the county™s 
public libraries.  The closest library to Beverly Vista 
Middle School is the Beverly Hills Public Library 
CA 90210-4877.
www.bhpl.org


˜˚˛˝˙
˝ˆˇˆ

˙
˝
ˇˆ
˜˝
‘’š€˝
˚ˆ˝
‡˝—
–˝
‘˝

˚˝

˝˝
‡˜⁄—
˝

ˆˇˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ˘
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ†
“˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
“‘˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
’š
‡
‡
‡
‡
‘˘ˇ˘—˝˙˘–
ƒ⁄‹‡
‡
‡
‡
˘ˇ˘—ˇ–
’šƒ‹›
‹−š
€’‰
•š

“
’‹š⁄›⁄⁄‹š•ƒš⁄−⁄‹‹ƒ‰
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
DISTRICT EXPENDITURESSALARY
 & BUDGET COMPARISONState law requires comparative salary and budget information to be reported to the general public. For 

Education has provided average salary data from 
school districts having similar average daily attendance throughout the state.EXPENDITURES PER STUDENT

general funds to educate each student (based on 

this report 1) compares the school™s per pupil 
expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and 
restricted (supplemental) sources with other 
schools in the district and throughout the state, and 
2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the 






services, facilities acquisition and construction, and 
certain other expenditures.)
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, state, 
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
