Hawthorne School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGE On behalf of the entire faculty and staff, it is my 
pleasure to present to you this year™s School 
Accountability Report Card for our school. Whether 
you are new to our school or are returning, we are 
excited to have you and your child or children as 
part of our school family.  Mr. Painter and I are 
excited to blend two wonderful communities as we 
create one new elementary school.  We have spent 
our summer moving boxes, decorating hallways and 
planning a school year of programs geared toward 
merging cultures and creating new traditions.  We 
appreciate the decades-long history of Beverly Hills 

new chapter.  


experiences for your children. Our focus is on 
providing every child with academic experiences 
that will result in a rewarding school year.  
Hawthorne™s outstanding teachers create the 
foundation for your children™s academic success.  I 
am immensely proud of the Hawthorne School 
ensure the success of all students.   The teachers 
set clear expectations and goals at high levels.  We 


each individual achieves at the highest level.At Hawthorne, we believe that the school staff and 

assist our children in their academic, social and 

parents and community members are involved.  
There are several ways as parents you can stay up 
to date with the many activities at Hawthorne. 
website, join Friends of Hawthorne and sign up for 


Sarah K. KaberPrincipalDISTRICT DESCRIPTION
western portion of Los Angeles, just below the 
Santa Monica mountains and next door to West 
Hollywood. Approximately 4,000 students in grades 

standards-based curriculum from dedicated and 

comprised of three elementary schools, one middle 
school, one comprehensive high school, and one 
continuation high school. DISTRICT MISSION AND VISION
deliver a rigorous and enriching quality 
education, and prepare all students to thrive as 
productive citizens in a complex, changing world. All students will be inspired to act with integrity 
and realize their academic potential while achieving college and career readiness.SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONHawthorne School is located in the northwest 
region of the district™s boundaries and  

2018-19 school year, Hawthorne School served 
556 students in grades TK-8. Student enrollment 
included 14.4% receiving special education 
services, 11.3% qualifying for English Language 
Learner support, and 17.4% enrolled in the free 
or reduced-price meal program. The curricular 
program for K-5 students is provided in a self-
contained classroom enriched with art, music, 
physical education, and technology instruction. 
Middle school students (grades 6-8) are in a 
ﬁschool within a schoolﬂ setting, receiving 
instruction in a homeroom and rotating between 
classes for individual subject area lessons. A 
special education preschool program is held on 
campus for the entire district as well as three city 
preschools.  Hawthorne School became an 
elementary school only, grades TK-5, in the 
2019-20 school year.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ††
˘“
˘’


˘š
€

˘
˘†
˘
•ˇˇ
˘‡
…˚˙

˘‘‡–
ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

—ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚—ˇ
‰˙

•
€˚ˇ„—
•ˇ”ˇ
‚

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
‚ˇ
™˙

ˇ˘
ˇ˘
Hawthorne School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
State Priority 6: School Climate (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension rates;Ł Pupil expulsion rates; andŁ Other local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access (Conditions of 
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the requirements 
of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes (Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of physical educationPARENT INVOLVEMENTParents are encouraged to become involved in 
Hawthorne School™s learning community by 
volunteering their time, attending school events, 

Parents may volunteer their assistance in the 
to School Night, Fall Harvest Festival, Career 

grade level socials, Halloween Parade, 

activities, and Pajama-rama provide opportunities 
for parents to interact with school staff while 
supporting their child™s efforts. The School Site 
Council, Parent Teacher Association, and Friends 
of Hawthorne provide opportunities for parents to 

planning.
becoming an active member in the school 

child™s teacher, the PTA president, or school 
administrator at (310) 229-3675. 
variety of formats. The online PTA newsletter is 

provides up-to-date information on Hawthorne™s 
programs and events.  Our school website is 
updated frequently with important information 
about school activities, special announcements, 
and a calendar of events.  Parents may access Hawthorne School™s website at http://haw.bhusd.
org; general information about the school, staff, 


assignments on the school™s website. Parents can 
sign up at the website to be on the Principal™s 
News List and receive announcements and 
school bulletins via e-mail. Aeries is an Internet-
based telephone messaging system that forwards 
personalized messages from school staff to each 
student™s home. Additionally, middle school 
students and their parents may view grades which are updated frequently at Jupiter Grades.
com.  Parents and students may set preferences 
for grading alerts to be received via email.SCHOOL VISIONAt Hawthorne, we are a compassionate 
community that values and respects others on 
our journey through personal growth.We are Intellectually curious and intrinsically 
motivated to value the challenges of learning.
society and lead by example with integrity.
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY
 PLAN (LCAP)State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
assigned and fully credentialed in the subject 
area and for the pupils they are teaching;Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned instructional materials; and School facilities are 
maintained in good repairState Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of 
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 

and each school siteState Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance and Progress [CAASPP] System, which includes the 
Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments for 
students in the general education population and 
the California Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for 
English language arts/literacy [ELA] and 
mathematics given in grades three through eight 
and grade eleven. Only eligible students may 
participate in the administration of the CAAs. 
CAAs items are aligned with alternate 

the Common Core State Standards [CCSS] for 

disabilities); and Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy the requirements for entrance to the University of 
California and the California State University, or 
career technical education sequences or 
programs of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy the requirements for entrance to the University of 
California and the California State University, or 
career technical education sequences or 
programs of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: Ł High school dropout rates; andŁ High school graduation rates˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝


˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of each year, Hawthorne School is 
required by the state to administer a physical 



six major areas. Students that either meet or 



district and state results can be found at the 

CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE AND PROGRESS (CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general 
education population, and the California Alternate 
Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 
students may participate in the administration of 
the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with 
alternative achievement standards, which are 

(CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how 
well students are mastering California™s 
standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) 
and mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests 
assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and 
mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests 

aligned with alternative achievement standards 

Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include 
overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score 
in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown 
only for subgroups with ten students or more 


criteria. More information on CAASPP can be 

Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
Hawthorne School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ
˚˚


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

ˇˆ˙˚
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝“
’ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ
ˆ˙ˆš˛ˇ˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˚˙˙˛ˆ˜˛˛ˆ˜˛
˛ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
˛ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˚˙˙˛ˆ˜˛˛ˆ˜˛
˛ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
˛ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛˘˛ˆ˜˛


˝


“˝˙


’˙šˆˆ€˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••˝˘ˆ‡˘˝˘ˆ˚˙˝š˘ˆ˝˛…
••••••••••••••••••••˝˘


“˚
••••••••••••••••••••–—˝˘ˆˆƒ˝˛˘˚


–˝⁄˝˘ˆˆ€ˆ‡˙˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••‹˛


˜⁄˚ˆˆ−


˚˘˝˙˙‰ˆ„˝˘˛
††

ˇ˘”˙›ˆ˘


˛˘˛ˆ⁄›ˆ„˝


˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘˙ˇ˘˘˙˙˙ˇ˘˙˙
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˘ˇ˙˚˘•ˇ

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛†“‘’š
‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ˘
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛—˝
ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛†“‘€š†“ˆ
…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ

†
MEASURE BH BONDIn June 2019, the Beverly Hills community approved a $385 million general obligation bond 
(Measure BH) to continue the modernization 
and safety-related upgrades of Beverly Hills 

high school facilities that began as a result of 



E bond was unable to fund.  Projects to be 
funded with Measure BH will be reported in the 2019-20 SARC to be published in January 
2021.MEASURE E BONDIn November 2008, the Beverly Hills community 
approved a $334 million general obligation bond 
(Measure E) to facilitate modernization and 


facilities. There are no projects to report for the 
2018-19 or 2019-20 school years for Hawthorne 
School. SUPERVISION & SAFETY

morning and after school. Three crossing 
guards are on duty as students travel to and 
from school. Private security personnel monitor 
the campus™ perimeter and gates throughout the 
day. Playground aides monitor K-8 playground 
areas before school and during recesses. When 
students are dismissed at the end of the day, 
playground aides and Beverly Hills City safety 
personnel ensure students depart in a safe and 
orderly manner. The principal,  custodian, 

school nurse carry hand-held radios to facilitate 
routine and emergency communications 
concerning student safety.  Regular meetings 
and trainings are held with playground aides to 
review safety procedures and protocols.  Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain a 
safe and secure environment, all parents and 
the front gate and receive a visitor™s badge 
using the Raptor System upon arrival.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝

ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙“˚˝‘˙’˛šš˝š
˙“˚˙’˛šš˝š
˙˚š˝š˙•š˙ˇš˚‡
šš
˘ˇ‘
’˚˝˙—˛€
—˘€˝˛˝
–˘…ˇ˝˚˙
˛††˙
ƒ⁄˚˝˙‹›˙
–˛›˚˝˚˙—˛€
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEHawthorne School provides a safe, clean 
environment for learning through proper facilities 
maintenance and campus supervision. Original 
school buildings were constructed in 1928; since 
that time, new structures have been added and outdated buildings replaced. 2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Installation of campus wide security camerasŁ Upgrades to WiFiŁ Installation of a digital bell and PA system
Ł Installation of 75ﬂ TVs in all classrooms
Ł Installation of VOIP phones
Ł Installation of perimeter privacy screens
  electricalHawthorne School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
FACILITIES MAINTENANCESchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance and operations department (M&O) 

classrooms, and campus grounds are well-

students, staff, and visitors. Monthly M&O 
meetings facilitate discussions concerning safety 
issues, maintenance needs, cleaning practices, 
and training. Custodians are required to comply 

approved cleaning standards and policies 

wish to review the district™s policies may contact 


Maintenance & Operations (M&O) employs a 

communicate unscheduled maintenance needs, 
urgent repairs, or special projects. Teachers and 

manager who prepares and forwards an 

Emergency situations are immediately resolved 
either by the school custodian or district maintenance staff; general requests are typically 
Campus facilities are cleaned daily; one full-time 
lead custodian, three full-time evening custodians are assigned to Hawthorne School 

routine maintenance, daily custodial duties, and 
preparation for special events. The principal and 
day custodian communicate daily regarding 
campus cleaning needs and safety concerns. 
Every morning before school begins, the  lead 
custodian inspects the facilities for safety 

removal prior to students and staff entering 
school grounds. The lead custodian is responsible for general 


in an orderly and secure condition. The lead 

throughout the day to ensure they are clean and 

responsible for comprehensive cleaning of 

other facilities. Quarterly site inspections are 
completed with maintenance and custodial staff 
to identify potential safety hazards.
landscaping and irrigation projects and repairs 
at Hawthorne School.FACILITIES INSPECTION

(M&O) for larger projects, routine facilities 
maintenance projects, and school inspections. 
The most recent facilities inspection at 

2019. Schools are required by state law to report 
the condition of their facilities; the School Facility 
Good Repair Status table illustrated in this report 

disclosing the operational status in each of those 
areas. The School Facilities & Safety section of the 
Construction (OPSC) Facility Inspection Tool 

inspection, and is not based on exhaustive 
structural analyses.  Under the FIT criteria, all 
buildings have been rated as either ﬁGoodﬂ or 
ﬁFair,ﬂ except three spaces that have already 
been closed down pending planned upgrades.



funds for seismic mitigation (SMP).  Nine of these are being completed under Measure E, with the 
In addition to the buildings  eligible for SMP, other buildings are being either modernized or replaced 
under Measure E, or a future bond. Hawthorne School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for Hawthorne School in collaboration 


disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and departure from school, sexual 
harassment policy, and dress code policy. The most current school site safety plan was reviewed, 
updated, and shared with school staff in October 2019.
CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNING


Character education instruction and discipline models are based upon the district™s character 
education program, the Pyramid of Success, character development program created and successfully 



and Personal Best.  Each month the corresponding trait is emphasized in themed activities and class 
discussions. All school staff encourage students to practice the Pyramid of Success while at school 
and at home. This program will further be supported by a partnership with the Maple Counseling 
Teachers have established grade-appropriate classroom management and incentive programs based 
on Hawthorne™s School Standards & Behavior Plan to maintain an effective learning environment; 

understanding. School and classroom rules are posted in each classroom. At the beginning of the 
school year, schoolwide assemblies and classroom presentations by school administrators are held 
to discuss school rules, safety procedures, consequences for poor behavior, and academic 
expectations. As needed throughout the year in classroom discussions, teachers remind their students 
to conduct themselves in a safe, responsible, and respectful manner.
Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the classroom when students are disruptive or 

conduct are referred to school administrators; consequences and disciplinary action are based upon 



counselor provides a two-day training for participants which teaches students how to resolve minor 


Club is available to 4th and 5th graders.Hawthorne School™s classroom and schoolwide recognition programs reinforce behaviors associated 
with the Pyramid of Success. Students demonstrating good behavior and citizenship are given a Gold 

who have maintained good citizenship are nominated by their teachers for Student of the Month; 

semester, Hawthorne celebrates the academic accomplishments and outstanding citizenship of middle 

consistently maintain excellent behavior are eligible to participate in the annual outdoor education 
program. ENRICHMENT ACTIVITIESStudents are encouraged to participate in Hawthorne School™s extracurricular activities as well as 

achievement, and instill a sense of belonging among students. Computer coding, Adventure Camp, 
and STAR enrichment programs are offered after school. There are also numerous clubs/programs 
students can participate in such as a dance program for 5th grade, Science Olympiad, a math 



CLASS SIZE
illustrate the distribution of class sizes by grade level, the average class size, and the number of 
classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 students, and 33 or more students.CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTA
FF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement 
are aligned to the California State Standards. 
Staff development concentrations are selected 

surveys, state assessment results, and administration/teacher input. Hawthorne School offers professional 

19 school year, Hawthorne School™s site-based 
staff development activities were based upon 
schoolwide goals outlined in the school plan 
consisting of:˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ






ˇ
†“
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛
˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˛˜˘˝
˙˜˛˛˘˝˜˜
˛˝˙
˙˛˝˘˝˛˜
˝
˙˛˙˘˝
˙ˇ˛˝˘˝˜˛
˜˛˛˘˝
˛˛˛˛˘˝
˛˙˝˙
˛˜˘˝
˙˝
˙ˇ˝˙
˜˝˙
˛˛˛˘˝
˛˙˝˜˛
˛˜˘˝
˙˛˜˘˝˜˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘
ˇ






‘’š

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
˜˚˛˛˛˝˚˝˛˝˝˙
ˆ
˝

˝

˛
˝
ˆ
˝

˝

˝
˛˛˝
ˆ
˛

˛

˛
˛˛˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˇ˘
˘ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘
˘
˘ˇ˘˘˘˘˘˘
˝˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘
˘




“‘
’“

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
Hawthorne School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł AssessmentsŁ Common Core State Standards
Ł ELL Strategies
Ł Grading PracticesŁ Intervention SupportŁ Learning Targets
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & SupportŁ Team Goals
Ł Technology (TIM & SAMRA)


offered professional development days, which 
focused on common assessments and how best 
to utilize these assessments to monitor student progress (grades K-12). A portion of training 
activities were led by administrators and 
educational consultants at school sites and at 
articulation meetings held in various locations 


and 2018-19 school years included:
and veteran teachers in developing their teaching 

program, a state-sponsored program, is 


two-year period. New Teacher Orientation is 
provided over a two-day period at the beginning 
of the school year for all teachers who are new 
training sessions provide an overview of general 
policies and practices; curriculum and instruction; 
and technology based tools.  The Peer 
Assistance and Review program is designed to improve the education for students and increase 
the classroom performance of teachers, targeting 
both new and veteran teachers.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘†
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’ˇ˘ˇ€˘•
ˆ˘
‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘
••˘—˘–˘˘•ˇ
ˆ˘˛⁄˘˜˘‹˘“˘‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘••˘—˘–˘˘

ˇˆ˘˜˘‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˇ—˘–˘
–˘
‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„–
”ˇ„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„‚˘
—˘
ˇ„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„
„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘ˆ
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘•ˆ˘ˆ
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘’ˇ˘ˆ
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„ﬂ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„€ˆ˘’ˆ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„€‹˘Ł„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘ˆˇ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘•
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘Ł
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–˘˘ﬂ
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–ˆƒ˘˘ﬂ
˘‹˘
ˆ†
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–ˆƒ˘‚˘
–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
”ˇ

ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘

’ˇ˘ˆˇ
’˘˘’ˇ˘
ﬂ˘€˘Œ
ˇˇ€ˆıˇ˘
˘–˘
ˇ
™˘˘
”˘ˆ˘


of expertise. New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and 




INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS

being aligned to the California State Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected 
from the state™s most recent list of standards-based materials and adopted by the State Board of 
Education. Instructional materials for grades 9-12 are standards-based and approved by the district™s 
Board of Education. The district follows the State Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core content 



been recommended for adoption by the Board of Education.






˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙
ˇ˘
˜˚
ˇ˘
˘˘˘˘
˘˘˘
˘˘
˘“†˘
˘˘’˘š€•
˘‡˘˘
˘˘•˘
˘…˘˘˘“˘“˙—
˘˘˘
˘˘˘–†˘
˘—ƒ⁄‹
˘⁄…˘˘
†
˘˘⁄˘›˘—†
˘⁄—˘›˘⁄˙
˘−ƒ…˘‹ƒ˘˘
˘˘š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
Hawthorne School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Learners, in math, science, history-social 
science, and English/language arts, including the 
English language development component of an 
adopted program, consistent with the cycles and 


were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign 

laboratory science equipment was available for 
science laboratory classes offered in grades 9-12 
inclusive. In addition to the core subject areas, districts are 
required to disclose in their SARCs the 


20 school year, all students enrolled in elective 

supplemental materials to use in class and to 

the California State Standards.SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Hawthorne School is a 
responsibility shared among school 
administrators, instructional staff, and parents. 

principal ensures both curricular and operational 
components of Hawthorne function properly. 
On late start days, staff collaboration activities 
are facilitated through grade level and department 
teams. Topics of discussion are driven by direct 
communication of teaching staff, teacher surveys, 
needs assessment surveys, and curricular 

instructional leadership team™s efforts focused on 
school goals and action plans, staff development 
needs, common core, previous page 
components, and Best Practices.The School Site Council (SSC) is comprised of 
administrators, teachers, and parents and meets 
once a month. The SSC is responsible for 
reviewing and approving the school site plan, the 
school safety plan, and annual budget. Council 
members serve as a liaison between the school 
and community.
SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction are currently being 
aligned to the California State Standards 
approved by the State Board of Education. Every 
child receives a rigorous, well-balanced, 
standards-aligned core program with emphasis 


structures its educational program so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their 
learning level. To ensure the success of every 
student, teachers use a variety of instructional techniques using research-based instructional 
materials and strategies. Students who regularly experience academic, 

are referred to the Student Study Team (SST).  
The SST is responsible for addressing barriers 
that impact the ability of a student to perform at 
his or her best in school, recommending 
intervention strategies/services to meet the 
child™s unique needs, and subsequently 
evaluating progress and modifying instruction as 
needed over time. A variety of strategies are 
considered to help promote academic success 
and may include but are not limited to:
instruction within the general education 
classroom.Ł Instruction by special education staff in the 
general education class.Ł Small group instruction in a separate setting with a special education teacher.

Additional special education services include Speech and Language, Adapted Physical Education, 
Occupational Therapy and Counseling for students who meet eligibility requirements.

special education teachers and a team of instructional assistants provide instruction appropriate to 
the needs of each student in a variety of settings. Special education students are integrated as much 
as possible into the general education classroom and provided instruction in the least restrictive 
environment. Each student™s curricular agenda is based upon their Individual Education Plan (IEP), 
which is reviewed and updated annually by the school™s IEP teams. The IEP ensures students with 
disabilities have equal access to core curriculum and educational opportunities and coordinates 
specially-designed instruction based upon individual academic, social, and/or behavioral needs.  
state to teach English Learners and are provided differentiated instruction in the general education 

are at the very early stages of learning the English language (Levels 1 and 2 within the context of the 




School continues to monitor their performance through the ELPAC and adjusts instruction as needed 

Hawthorne School offers a Gifted and Talented Education program for students  who have been 
recognized as high achievers by their teachers and through district testing.  The goal of the GATE 
program is to provide original, interdisciplinary curricula that challenges and inspires gifted students.  
The curriculum is differentiated to provide a variety of instructional strategies structured so that 
individual student experiences/activities can vary in acceleration, depth, complexity or degree of 
novelty. 
Hawthorne Elementary hosts a series of intervention programs to meet the needs of those students 

student participation in one or more of Hawthorne Elementary™s intervention programs typically comes 
from the Student Study Team, instructional staff/teachers, or a student™s parent based upon classroom 
performance or state/district assessment results.  Intervention strategies may include:Ł English Learners: students who need additional assistance in acquiring the English language may 

Ł Reading/Study Buddies: responsible middle school students may use their elective  or study hall 

Ł After-School Tutoring: Students in grades K-8 are able to receive after-school tutoring in the library.
PROFESSIONAL STA
FFTEACHER ASSIGNMENT

at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching 
outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher 
misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number 

student group, etc.˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆ˝˚ˆ˚ˆ˘
ˆ˝˚ˆ˚ˆ˘
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘†
“‘’
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
š˘
ˇˇ˜ˆ˜ˆ˘˘š‡
ˇ˜……˝…˘—
ˇˇ˜˜ˇˆ

ƒ‹
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
Hawthorne School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SUPPORT SERVICES STA
FFSupport service staff consists of school 
counselors, psychologists, and nurses. This 
expert team of support service staff, through 
close collaboration, is instrumental in improving 
student attendance and achievement through 
health and/or emotional concerns. School counselors provide academic guidance, 
classroom visits to discuss social issues and 

diverse issues interfering with a student™s ability 
to learn and succeed in school. School psychologists and counselors are 
available to assist with academic, social, and 
emotional issues as needed.  The school 
psychologist provides psycho-educational 
assessments to determine eligibility for special 
education services and to facilitate coordination of Individual Education Plans (IEP). School 
nurses conduct mandatory health screening 
aid. SARC DATA
 & ACCESSDATA
QUEST
dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about Hawthorne School 
and comparisons of the school to the district, the 

reports for school accountability, including but 
not limited to, CAASPP results, Physical Fitness 


statistics.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATION
Parents may access Hawthorne School™s SARC 
and access the internet at any of the county™s 
public libraries.  The closest library to Beverly 
Hills High School is the Beverly Hills Public 

Beverly Hills, CA 90210-4877.
Open to the Public:   Mon.-Thurs. 10:00-9:00  Fri.-Sat. 10:00-6:00  Sun. 12:00-5:00Phone: (310) 288-2220www.bhpl.org
Number of Computers Available: 22
Printers Available: Yes
˜˚˛˝˙
˝ˆˇˆ

˙
˝
ˇˆ
˜˝
‘’š€˝
˚ˆ˝
‡˝—
–˝
‘˝

˚˝

˝˝
‡˜⁄—
˝

ˆˇˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
DISTRICT EXPENDITURESSALARY
 & BUDGET COMPARISONState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State 

salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state.EXPENDITURES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Beverly Hills 

$17,371 of total general funds to educate each 

statements). The table in this report 1) compares 
the school™s per pupil expenditures from 
unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) 
sources with other schools in the district and 
throughout the state, and 2) compares the 
average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state 


cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and http://www.cde.ca.gov/



acquisition and construction, and certain other 
expenditures.)
federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received 
federal, state, and local aid for categorical, special education, and support programs, including but 
not limited to:Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘˙˝
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
†“˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†‘˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
’š
•
•
•
•
‘˘ˇ˘…˝˙˘—
•
•
•
•
˘ˇ˘…ˇ—
ƒš’’⁄

−€‰
–š⁄›–

†“
ƒ›šƒƒ−−››–„š’‹’
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

ˇ

ˆ˝˜

ˇ



˝

˝˝ˆ˝


’˘ˇ˝ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙
˙˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
ˇ

