El Rodeo School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWith great pride, we present El Rodeo School™s Annual 
School Accountability Report Card. The purpose of this 
document is to provide parents and others with 
information about our school™s instructional programs, 
academic achievement, textbooks, safety procedures, 
facilities, and professional staff. Understanding our 
educational program will help families and community 
members assist us in our efforts to provide an 
outstanding learning experience for all children.The stakeholder groups at El Rodeo are committed to 
providing the best educational program possible for our 
students. The excellent quality of our program is a 

that our school provides a warm yet stimulating environment, El Rodeo is a learning community where 
students are actively involved in rigorous academics as 
well as the development of positive values and a strong 
sense of philanthropy. Together we challenge students 
to be their best and realize their full potential.DISTRICT DESCRIPTION
western portion of Los Angeles, just below the Santa 
Monica mountains and next door to West Hollywood. 
More than 4,000 students in grades kindergarten through twelve receive a rigorous, standards-based 
professionals. The district is comprised of three 
elementary schools, one middle school, one comprehensive high school, and one continuation high 
school.DISTRICT MISSION AND VISION
a rigorous and enriching quality education, and prepare 
all students to thrive as productive citizens in a complex, 
changing world. All students will be inspired to act with integrity and 
realize their academic potential while achieving college 
and career readiness.SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONEl Rodeo School is located in the western region of the 

School served 600 students in grades K-8. Student 
enrollment included 9.8% receiving special education 
services, 2.2% qualifying for English Language Learner 
support, and 10.4% enrolled in the free or reduced-price 
meal program. The curricular program for K-5 students 
is provided in a self-contained classroom while students 
in grades 6-8 participate in a departmental rotation for 
their lessons.  
to modernization projects and is not expected to reopen 
until the 2021-22 school year.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘“
˘


˘
š€

˘’
’‡˘š
˘‘€“
…ˇˇ
˘‡
‡‡—˚˙

˘€€•
ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

˚ˇ„–
šš•…ˇ”ˇ
‚
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
‚ˇ
™˙

ˇ˘
ˇ˘
SCHOOL VISIONThe vision of El Rodeo School is that our scholars 
engage in a rigorous educational program across 
all disciplines. The curriculum is integrated with a 
variety of instructional strategies, arts programs, 
and current technology. Staff, parents, and 
students collaborate to meet the individual needs 
of our scholars in a safe and nurturing environment 
conducive to teaching and learning. We promote 
respect for the diversity of all and El Rodeo 
scholars take pride in their connection to our 
learning community. We encourage social and 
civic responsibility, and provide opportunities to 
practice those values. Our vision is to create lifelong learners who are meaningful contributors 
to society.
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY
 PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, 
school districts are required to develop, adopt, and 
annually update a three-year Local Control and 
Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 
components of this SARC address some of the 

The SARC provides the following information 

assigned and fully credentialed in the subject area 
and for the pupils they are teaching;Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and School facilities are 
maintained in good repair El Rodeo School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
nights and PTA-sponsored workshops are held throughout the school year, offering families the tools and 
knowledge to successfully support academic efforts at home. The School Site Council, Parent Teacher 


planning. Parents seeking more information about becoming an active member in the school community 
School-to-home communication takes place in a variety of formats. Some teachers prepare weekly 
newsletters to update parents on classroom activities and assignments. Quarterly progress reports are 

academic progress. Jupiter Grades, an on-line web-based program, allows teachers to post homework and 
assignments for student and parent access available on the web at jupitergrades.com.  Our Aeries student 
information system includes a parent communication component that allows school personnel to email 
families regarding school events and news. Parents are encouraged to contact school staff through e-mail 
and check the school™s website for valuable information about the school, PTA, staff, and schedules. At the 
front of the school, signage on the fencing displays current news and announcements.STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of each year, El Rodeo School is 




Students that either meet or exceed the standards in 


Comparative district and state results can be found 

CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE AND PROGRESS (CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance 
and Progress (CAASPP) System includes the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for 
students in the general education population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students 

of the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the 
Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well students are mastering 


mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with 
alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and state 
scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown only for 
subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank in the tables, no 



Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the requirements 
of State Priority 2.
The SARC provides the following information 
Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek parent 
input in making decisions for the school district and 
each school site
The SARC provides the following information 
Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
[CAASPP] System, which includes the Smarter 
Balanced Summative Assessments for students in 
the general education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for English language 

three through eight and grade eleven. Only eligible 
students may participate in the administration of the 
CAAs. CAAs items are aligned with alternate 
achievement standards, which are linked with the 
Common Core State Standards [CCSS] for students 
Ł The percentage of students who have successfully 
completed courses that satisfy the requirements for 
entrance to the University of California and the 
California State University, or career technical 
education sequences or programs of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have successfully 
completed courses that satisfy the requirements for 
entrance to the University of California and the 
California State University, or career technical 
education sequences or programs of study.
The SARC provides the following information 
Ł High school dropout rates; andŁ High school graduation ratesThe SARC provides the following information 
Ł Pupil suspension rates;Ł Pupil expulsion rates; andŁ Other local measures on the sense of safety
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the requirements 

Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of physical educationPARENT INVOLVEMENTParents are encouraged to get involved in El Rodeo 
School™s learning community by volunteering their 
time, attending school events, or sharing in the decision-making process. School staff welcome 
parents™ assistance in the classroom and library, 

Back to School Night, Open House, Multicultural 
Week, Outdoor Education, student performances, 
Family BBQ™s, Ice Cream Social, Fun Run, Bedtime 
with Books, Musical Theater, Student Variety Show, 
and service learning projects provide opportunities for parents to interact with school staff while 
supporting their child™s efforts. Parent education 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ
˝˜˚˚


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

˚
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝†
‘ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ
ˆ˙ˆ’˛ˇ˚˚
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛†“‘’š
‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ˘
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛—˝
ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛†“‘€š†“ˆ
…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ

†
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˚˙˙˛ˆ˜˛˛ˆ˜˛
˛ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
˛ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˚˙˙˛ˆ˜˛˛ˆ˜˛
˛ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
˛ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛˘˛ˆ˜˛


˝


‘˝˙


’˙šˆˆ€˝˘ˆ˝˘


˝˘ˆ•˘˝˘ˆ˚˙˝š˘ˆ˝˛‡
……………………………………………………˝˘


‘˚
……………………………………………………–—˝˘ˆˆƒ˝˛˘˚


⁄˛


˜›˚ˆˆ−


˚˘˝˙˙‰ˆ„˝˘˛


ˇ˘”˙‹ˆ˘
““
““
˛˘˛ˆ›‹ˆ„˝


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˚˛˘ˆ
ˇ˙

ˆ˘ˆ˝ˆ˘˙˚˘˘˘˙ˆ˘˘
˘‘’š˘€‘
SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEEl Rodeo School provides a safe, clean 
environment for learning through proper facilities 
maintenance and campus supervision. Original 

that time, an increase in enrollment prompted the 

included a multipurpose room, a shop area, and 
music rooms) and a three-story building adding 
more classrooms in the latter part of the 1960™s. 
Ongoing maintenance ensures school facilities are 
kept safe and in good working condition and 
continue to provide adequate space for students 
and staff. 
FACILITIES MAINTENANCESchool custodial staff and the district™s maintenance 
and operations department (M&O) work together to 
ensure playgrounds, classrooms, and campus 
grounds are well-maintained and kept safe and 
functioning for students, staff, and visitors. Monthly 
M&O meetings facilitate discussions concerning 
safety issues, maintenance needs, cleaning 
practices, and training. Custodians are required to 

approved cleaning standards and policies outlined 
in the custodial handbook. Parents who wish to 
review the district™s policies may contact the 


Maintenance and Operations (M&O) employs a 
work order process enabling El Rodeo School to 
communicate unscheduled maintenance needs, 
urgent repairs, or special projects. Teachers and 

prepares and forwards an electronic work order to 
the principal for approval and then to M&O for 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝

ˆ˙˚˙

˘
˙˚˝†˙“˛‘‘˝‘
˙˚˙“˛‘‘˝‘
˙€˚‘˝‘˙‘˙ˇ‘˚•
‘‘
“˚˝˙…˛’
“˚˝˘˛
…˘’˝˛˝
˙–ƒ˚˝˙⁄‹˙€
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was 
developed for El Rodeo School in collaboration 


plan include child abuse reporting procedures, 

disaster response procedures, procedures for safe 
arrival and departure from school, sexual harassment policy, and dress code policy. The 
school™s most current school site safety plan was 
reviewed, updated, and shared with school staff in 
November 2019.MEASURE E BONDIn June 2019, the Beverly Hills community 
(Measure BH) to continue the modernization and 


school facilities that began as a result of Measure 
that bond project and allow the opportunity to start 
new work that the Measure E bond was unable to 
fund.  Projects to be funded with Measure BH will 
be reported in the 2019-20 SARC to be published 
in January 2021.MEASURE E BONDIn November 2008, the Beverly Hills community 

(Measure E) to facilitate modernization and safety-


Ł 



PGMP #2 for all structural trades was approved 
by the BOE November 2019.  Trade contractor 
are mobilizing and completing show drawing 

approval.  Structural work is to commence 
FACILITIES INSPECTIONSEl Rodeo School works closely with the district™s 

larger projects, routine facilities maintenance 
projects, and school inspections. The most recent 
facilities inspection at El Rodeo School took place 
law to report the condition of their facilities; the School Facility Good Repair Status table illustrated 

areas, disclosing the operational status in each of 
those areas.  There was on inspection during the 
2019-20 school year since the site is closed for 
modernizations projects.resolution. Emergency situations are immediately 
resolved either by the school custodian or district 
maintenance staff; general requests are typically 
addressed within two weeks.   Campus facilities are cleaned daily; one full-time day 
custodian, three full-time evening custodians, and a groundskeeper are assigned to El Rodeo School and 
work closely with the principal for routine 
maintenance, daily custodial duties, and preparation for special events. Administrators and the day 
custodian communicate daily regarding campus 
cleaning needs and safety concerns. Every morning 
before school begins, the custodian inspects the 

that require removal prior to students and staff 
entering school grounds; the grounds crew resolves 
issues that arise or contact M&O for assistance. The day custodian is responsible for general upkeep 
of campus and keeping restrooms, classrooms, 

secure condition. The day custodian checks 
restrooms frequently throughout the day to ensure 
they are in sanitary condition and properly stocked. 
The evening custodians are responsible for 
comprehensive cleaning of classrooms, restrooms, 

include cleaning student desktops. The 
groundskeeper is responsible for general landscaping 
and irrigation projects for the campus of the El Rodeo 
School.SUPERVISION & SAFETY

after school. As students arrive on campus, 
playground assistants monitor the student drop-off 
and playground areas while one yard supervisor 

lunch, playground supervisors monitor student 
activities on the playgrounds and the assistant 
principal circulates throughout the campus greeting 
students and monitoring transition periods. At the end 
of the day, students are directed towards the main 
exit; one playground assistant remains in the student 

the gate to ensure students depart in a safe and 
orderly manner. Kindergarten students remain in the 
kinder area until they are released to an authorized 
parent or guardian. After-school day care is provided 
on campus by city and privately-owned agencies.  To maintain a safe and secure campus, facilities are 

The school™s single entrance is locked and monitored 
by surveillance cameras. All staff members wear a 

Parents, volunteers, and visitors are allowed on 
campus after checking in with security at the front 
gate. Once on campus, individuals are required to 

visitor™s badge.
El Rodeo School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
The School Facilities & Safety section of the SARC 

(OPSC) Facility Inspection Tool (FIT). The FIT uses 

based on exhaustive structural analyses.  Under the 
FIT criteria, all buildings have been rated as either 

already been closed down pending planned 
upgrades.

funds for seismic mitigation (SMP).  Nine of these are being completed under Measure E, with the 

In addition to the buildings  eligible for SMP, other 
buildings are being either modernized or replaced 
under Measure E, or a future bond. CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGSchool staff support an environment that teaches 
students, through the daily curriculum, the skills to 

decisions. Character education instruction and 
discipline models are based upon the district™s 
character education program, the Pyramid of 
Success, character development program created 
and successfully utilized by famed UCLA basketball 
coach John Wooden.  Each month students focus 
on the blocks that make up the pyramid such as 
Hard Work & Enthusiasm, Friendship & Loyalty, 

Alertness & Action, Fitness & Skill, Team Spirit, 

month the corresponding trait is emphasized in 
themed activities and class discussions. All school 
staff encourage students to practice the Pyramid of 
Success while at school and at home. This program 
will further be supported by a partnership with the 
Maple Counseling Center which works with El 
Rodeo students in various grade levels.Teachers have established grade-appropriate 
classroom management and incentive programs 
based on general school rules to maintain an 
effective learning environment; discipline and 
positive behavior support plans are prepared and 
submitted to school administrators each year.  
School rules and consequences for poor behavior 

posted in the classroom. At the beginning of each 


school rules, policies, and behavior expectations. 
Parents and students are required to return the 
acknowledgment page located in the Agenda to 

and procedures. Students in grades 1-8 attend a expectation assembly at the beginning of the school 
year that outlines school rules and behavior 
expectations.  Students in grades K-2 receive a 

student  responsibilities regarding academic and 
behavioral conduct; students and their parents are 
required to sign and return the contract™s 
acknowledge page. The principal conducts a rules 

school. Every staff member takes responsibility to 
model desired behaviors, setting the example on 
how students are expected to conduct themselves. 
Modeling, consistent enforcement, and positive reinforcement on a daily basis have powerful impact 
on the learning environment. Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the 
classroom when students are disruptive or demonstrating poor citizenship in the classroom. 
Students who continue to make poor choices in 
conduct are referred to the assistant principal for 
counseling; consequences and disciplinary action 
are based upon the student™s past behavioral trend 
and severity of infraction. Students experiencing severe instances of misconduct are immediately 





˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˛˝˘˝˛
˜˛˝˘˝˜˛
˛˝˙
˙˝
˝
˙˝˙˙
ˇ˛˝˘˝˙
˜˛˛˘˝
˛˛˝˙
˙˝˙
˝
˙˛˛˘˝˜˙
ˇ˝˛
˜˛˜˘˝˛˜
˛˛˛˘˝
˛˙˝˙
˝˙
˝˙˙


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘
ˇ





‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

ˇ
Positive behavior and citizenship exhibited by students are recognized by every staff member through verbal 

Wooden™s Pyramid for Success. Middle school students (grades 6-8) are recognized for academic 
accomplishments, citizenship, continuous academic improvement, community service, attendance, and 
efforts to improve at end-of-semester awards assemblies and quarterly rewards. 
˜˚˛˛˛˝˚˝˛˝˝˙
ˆ




˛
˛
ˆ


˝

˛˝
˝
ˆ
˛˝˛



˛
˜


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˇ˘
˘ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘
˘
˘ˇ˘˘˘˘˘˘
˝˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘
˘



“‘
’“
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
El Rodeo School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
ENRICHMENT ACTIVITIESStudents are encouraged to participate in El Rodeo 
School™s extracurricular activities as well as take 
advantage of city-sponsored programs. These 
activities promote positive attitudes, encourage achievement, and instill a sense of belonging 
among students. Lunchtime enrichment activities of a garden program, math club, musical theater, 
robotics, leadership, chess club, and student 
council are offered at El Rodeo. 
CLASS SIZE

illustrate the distribution of class sizes by grade 
level, the average class size, and the number of 

CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTA
FF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement 

aligned to the California State Standards. Staff 
development concentrations are selected and 


teacher input.  El Rodeo offers professional development days 
with site-based training which take place on weekly 
late start days. School administrators and teachers 
identify professional development needs based 
upon analysis of district goals, site goals, and 
student performance results. Site-based supplemental professional development activities 

Ł STEM Training
Ł Small Group InstructionŁ Learning EnvironmentŁ Personalization (Bullying, SST, Continuous 
   Academic Improvement)

Ł Reading & LiteracyŁ Moving Students from Far Below Basic & Below   Basic Performance Levels to the Proficient Level
Ł Reflective PracticeŁ JupiterGrades Training
Ł Best Practices, New PracticesŁ Student Success and Teacher Analysis of
   ResultsŁ Articles Studies on Personalization Related to   
  Student Work
Ł Technology Integration
Ł Vertical & Horizontal Group Collaboration on 
  Student Issues

professional development days, which focused on 
common assessments and how best to utilize these 
assessments to monitor student progress (grades 
K-12). A portion of training activities were led by 
administrators and educational consultants at 
school sites and at articulation meetings held in 



,INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
All textbooks used in the core curriculum 
currently being aligned to the California State 
Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 
are selected from the state™s most recent list of 
standards-based materials and adopted by the 
State Board of Education. Instructional materials for grades 9-12 are standards-based and approved 
by the district™s Board of Education. The district 
follows the State Board of Education™s adoption 
cycle for core content materials and for textbook 
adoptions in foreign language, visual and 

and adoption activities occur the year following the 


review textbooks that have been recommended for 
adoption by the Board of Education.

hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks and 
instructional materials have been provided to 
students. The Board of Education adopted 

required by Education Code §60119 that (1) 
textbooks and instructional materials were provided 
to all students, including English Learners, in the 
district to the extent that each pupil has a textbook 
or instructional materials, or both, to use in class and to take home to complete required homework 

instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English Learners, in math, 

language arts, including the English language 
development component of an adopted program, 
consistent with the cycles and content of the 
instructional materials were provided to each pupil 
enrolled in foreign language or health classes, and 

available for science laboratory classes offered in 
grades 9-12 inclusive. In addition to the core subject areas, districts are 


school year, all students enrolled in elective classes 
were been provided with a textbook or 
supplemental materials to use in class and to take 
home. These materials are in alignment with the 
California State Standards.
veteran teachers in developing their teaching skills. 


year credentialed teachers and provides skills 
assistance over a two-year period. New Teacher 
Orientation is provided over a two-day period at the beginning of the school year for all teachers who are 

training sessions provide an overview of general 
policies and practices; curriculum and instruction; and 
technology based tools.  The Peer Assistance and 
Review program is designed to improve the education 
for students and increase the classroom performance 
of teachers, targeting both new and veteran teachers.
The principal encourages teachers to attend 

of expertise. New teachers, experienced teachers, 

staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 


additional job-related training from vendors, 
department supervisors, and district representatives. 
The district makes available technology training for 

˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙
ˇ˘
˜˚
ˇ˘
˘˘˘˘
˘˘˘
˘˘
˘“†˘
˘˘’˘š€•
˘‡˘˘
˘˘•˘
˘…˘˘˘“˘“˙—
˘˘˘
˘˘˘–†˘
˘—ƒ⁄‹
˘⁄…˘˘
†
˘˘⁄˘›˘—†
˘⁄—˘›˘⁄˙
˘−ƒ…˘‹ƒ˘˘
˘˘š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
El Rodeo School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the 
California State Standards approved by the State 
Board of Education. Every child receives a rigorous, 
well-balanced standards-aligned core program. El 
Rodeo School structures its educational program so 
that all students receive instruction appropriate to 
their learning level. To ensure the success of every 
student, teachers use a variety of instructional 
techniques using research-based instructional 
materials and strategies. Students who regularly experience academic, 

referred to the district Student Success Team (SST).  
The team is responsible for addressing barriers that 
impact the ability of a student to perform at his or 
her best in school, recommending intervention 

and subsequently evaluating progress and 
modifying instruction as needed over time. A variety 
of strategies are considered to help promote 
academic success and may include but are not 
limited to differentiated class instruction, small group 
instruction outside the general education 

counseling.SPECIAL EDUCATION
 PROGRAMEl Rodeo School™s special education program is 

education aides provide co-teaching instruction with 
classroom teachers in cluster classes with K-8 
students. Special education students are 
mainstreamed as much as possible into the general 
education classroom and provided instruction in the 
least restrictive environment. Resource specialist teachers and aides provide individualized instruction 
based upon areas of need; instruction is provided both in-class and in the resource room in the format 
of a study skills elective. Each student™s curricular agenda is based upon their 
Individual Education Plan (IEP), which is reviewed 
and updated annually by the school™s IEP teams. 
The IEP ensures students with disabilities have 
equal access to core curriculum and educational 
opportunities and coordinates specially-designed 
instruction based upon individual academic, social, 

therapist, one full-time school psychologist, one 
part-time occupational therapist, and one part-time 
adaptive physical education specialist are on staff 
to provide necessary services to El Rodeo School™s 
special needs students.ENGLISH LEARNERS

state to teach English Learners and are provided differentiated instruction in the general education 



the existing language arts curriculum. Students in 
grades K-5 receive targeted in-class instruction and 


The EL teacher collaborates with classroom 
teachers to deliver an instructional program that 
meets individual students™ language and academic 

language development, reading skills, vocabulary 
development, reteaching class lessons, and front-
loading for future lessons. As students increase 

continues to monitor their performance through the 
ELPAC and adjusts instruction as needed to ensure 
continued success. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘†
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’ˇ˘ˇ€˘•
ˆ˘
‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘
••˘—˘–˘˘•ˇ
ˆ˘˛⁄˘˜˘‹˘“˘‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘••˘—˘–˘˘

ˇˆ˘˜˘‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˇ—˘–˘
–˘
‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„–
”ˇ„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„‚˘
—˘
ˇ„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„
„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘ˆ
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘•ˆ˘ˆ
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘’ˇ˘ˆ
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„ﬂ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„€ˆ˘’ˆ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„€‹˘Ł„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘ˆˇ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘•
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘Ł
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–˘˘ﬂ
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–ˆƒ˘˘ﬂ
˘‹˘
ˆ†
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–ˆƒ˘‚˘
–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
”ˇ

ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘

’ˇ˘ˆˇ
’˘˘’ˇ˘
ﬂ˘€˘Œ
ˇˇ€ˆıˇ˘
˘–˘
ˇ
™˘˘
”˘ˆ˘

GIFTED & TALENTED EDUCATION
El Rodeo School offers a Gifted and Talented Education program for students  who have been recognized 
as high achievers by their teachers and through district testing.  The goal of the GATE program is to provide 
original, interdisciplinary curricula that challenges and inspires gifted students.  The curriculum is 

activities can vary in acceleration, depth, complexity or degree of novelty. GATE students have the 
opportunity to participate in Star Education which is offered on late start Wednesdays throughout the year. 
INTERVENTION PROGRAMSEl Rodeo School hosts a series of intervention programs to meet the needs of those students not meeting 
in one or more of El Rodeo School™s intervention programs typically comes from the Student Success Team, 





   tutoring before or after school by intervention teachers for reading and math.
PROFESSIONAL STA
FFSUPPORT SERVICES STA
FFSupport service staff consists of a school counselor, 
psychologist, and health aide. This expert team of 
support services staff, through close collaboration, is 
instrumental in improving student attendance and 


issues interfering with a student™s ability to learn and 
succeed in school, and provides academic guidance. The school psychologist assists with academic, social, 
and emotional issues and provides psycho-educational 
assessments to determine eligibility for special 
education services and to facilitate coordination of 
Individual Education Plans (IEP). The district nurse 
conducts health screening programs; the health 

services. TEACHER ASSIGNMENT


competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher 

authorization to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.SARC DATA
 & ACCESSDATA
QUEST

information about El Rodeo School and 
comparisons of the school to the district, the 

for school accountability, including but not limited 
to, CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 


statistics.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATION
Parents may access El Rodeo™s SARC and access 
the internet at any of the county™s public libraries.  
The closest library to El Rodeo is the Beverly Hills 


www.bhpl.org


˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˇˆ˝˚ˆ˚ˆ˘
ˇˆ˝˚ˆ˚ˆ˘
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇ˜ˇˆ˜ˆ˘˘€…
ˇˆˇ˝˘—
ˇˇ˜˜ˇˆ

ƒ⁄‹
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

ˇ

˜

ˇ†



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙
˙˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
El Rodeo School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT EXPENDITURESSALARY
 & BUDGET COMPARISONState law requires comparative salary and budget 
information to be reported to the general public. For 

Education has provided average salary data from 
school districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state.EXPENDITURES PER STUDENT

general funds to educate each student (based on 

this report 1) compares the school™s per pupil 
expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and 
restricted (supplemental) sources with other 
schools in the district and throughout the state, and 
2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the 






acquisition and construction, and certain other 
expenditures.)˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
†“˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
‘’š
•
•
•
•
˘ˇ˘…˝˙˘—
–‘•
•
•
•
˘ˇ˘…ˇ—
‘’šƒ‘⁄
‘‹š’›‘
›‹−
›šƒ’›
‘‹’−
†“
›ƒš–‘š€’’‘’‘−›⁄š–‹–‘’‹−
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘


Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
˜˚˛˝˙
˝ˆˇˆ

˙
˝
ˇˆ
˜˝
‘’š€˝
˚ˆ˝
‡˝—
–˝
‘˝

˚˝

˝˝
‡˜⁄—
˝

ˆˇˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
