Horace Mann School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGE Welcome to Horace Mann School! Our school is a 
place to be proud of. We have a long tradition of 
academic excellence, with consistently high achievement levels and standardized assessment 
scores which place us among the top schools in 
California.  Moreover, our students understand that 
their success is measured through their character and 
leadership as much as it is by their grades and test 
scores.
our responsibility to provide a stimulating, standards-
based program in a safe and secure setting. Information about the quality of our instructional 
program and teaching staff will demonstrate our ability 
to prepare your children for future success. Together, 
all of us help to make Horace Mann a rich, diverse, 
and inspiring place to be. It is a pleasure being a part 
of the Horace Mann family, and I welcome your 
feedback and insights about ways we can continue to 
improve and to make our school all that it can be.DISTRICT DESCRIPTION
western portion of Los Angeles, just below the Santa 
Monica mountains and next door to West Hollywood. 
More than 4,000 students in grades kindergarten 
through twelve receive a rigorous, standards-based 

professionals. The district is comprised of three 
elementary schools, one middle school, one 
comprehensive high school, and one continuation high 
school. DISTRICT MISSION AND MISSION
deliver a rigorous and enriching quality education, and 
prepare all students to thrive as productive citizens in a complex, changing world. All students will be inspired to act with integrity and 
realize their academic potential while achieving 
college and career readiness.SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONHorace Mann School is located in the eastern region 
of the district™s boundaries and considered a 

Horace Mann School served 561 students in grades 
K-8. Student enrollment included 15.7% receiving 
special education services, 11.8% qualifying for 
English Language Learner support, and 18.9% 
enrolled in the free or reduced-price meal program. 
Middle school students (grades 6-8) are in a ﬁschool 
within a schoolﬂ setting, rotating between classes for individual subject area lessons.  
Horace Mann School offers students in 
the surrounding community the best in 
standards-based curriculum, family 
support, and technology, enabling 
students to become leaders in the new 
millennium. Every staff member is 
dedicated to academic excellence and personally 
committed to meeting the learning needs of each 
student. The instructional program challenges 
students to achieve their highest potential, discover 
their talents, and develop their unique abilities.SCHOOL MISSIONOur mission at Horace Mann School is to empower 
students to become independent, self-motivated 
learners who function productively in society and who are prepared to continue on into higher 
education.LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY
 PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, 
school districts are required to develop, adopt, and 
annually update a three-year Local Control and 
Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 
components of this SARC address some of the 
The SARC provides the following information 

assigned and fully credentialed in the subject area 
and for the pupils they are teaching;Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and School facilities are 
maintained in good repair
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the requirements of State Priority 2.˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘“‘’
˘š’“


˘
€š

˘
‘‘˘‘‘•
˘€•“
‡ˇˇ
˘’
’‘…˚˙

˘•
–ˇƒ˙ˇ⁄
˜‹ˇ
›

—ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ–˚—ˇ
−˙

‡

˚ˇ„—
‘€“‡ˇ”ˇ
‚
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
‚ˇ
™˙
ˇ˘
ˇ˘
Horace Mann School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
students and their parents, the annual meeting for 
parents of incoming kindergarten students, Title I 
meetings, parenting workshops, and the annual 
English Learning Advisory Council meeting are 
instrumental in creating a positive connection to staff 
and the school environment.The School Site Council and Parent Teacher 
Association provide leadership opportunities for 
parents seeking input into curricular programs and 

information about becoming an active member in the 

president, or PTA Volunteer Coordinator at (310) 551-
5104.A wide variety of activities and special events held 
throughout the year provide opportunities for parents 
to support their child™s accomplishments. The 
district™s PTA Council sponsors several single-session 
parent workshops throughout the year. The high 
school principal conducts an annual meeting with eighth grade parents to share effective student 
support strategies to ease the transition into high school. High school counselors schedule a small 
group information session with eighth grade students 
and their parent(s) prior to high school enrollment; the session is designed to establish goals for high 
school coursework and learn about graduation and 
A-G requirements.SCHOOL-TO
-HOME COMMUNICATION
A variety of formats are used to communicate school 
news to parents. The PTA publishes a monthly 
newsletter which includes school information, a letter 
from the principal, and a calendar of events; the 
newsletter is emailed to all parents who have 
registered their email address through the PTA™s 
website. A Smore newsletter is sent out to parents 
weekly on Sundays as reminders for upcoming 
activities. Most school-to-home communications are 
distributed through phone calls, email, or the school 
website.Students in grades 3-5 are given an ﬁAgendaﬂ which 
is primarily used for recording lesson assignments; 
however, designated areas within the Agenda may 
be used to facilitate written two-way communication between parents and teachers.Parents may access Horace Mann School™s website 

the school, staff email, activities, homework, 
schedules, and school news.STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of each year, Horace Mann School is 




Students that either meet or exceed the standards in 


Comparative district and state results can be found 


(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek parent 
input in making decisions for the school district and 
each school site
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress 
[CAASPP] System, which includes the Smarter 
Balanced Summative Assessments for students in 
the general education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for English 

given in grades three through eight and grade eleven. Only eligible students may participate in 
the administration of the CAAs. CAAs items are 
aligned with alternate achievement standards, 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards [CCSS] for students with the most Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy the 
requirements for entrance to the University of 
California and the California State University, or 
career technical education sequences or programs 
of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that satisfy the 
requirements for entrance to the University of 
California and the California State University, or 
career technical education sequences or programs 
of study.

The SARC provides the following information 
Ł High school dropout rates; andŁ High school graduation ratesThe SARC provides the following information 
Ł Pupil suspension rates;Ł Pupil expulsion rates; andŁ Other local measures on the sense of safety
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the requirements 
of State Priority 7.
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of physical 
educationPARENT INVOLVE
MENTHorace Mann School is very proud of the 
extraordinary support of its parents and its strong 
connection to the Beverly Hills community. Parents 
are encouraged to participate fully by volunteering 
their time, attending school events, or sharing in 
the decision-making process. Staff welcome 
parents to help out in the classroom and with 
community service projects. Fundraising activities and other school activities provide opportunities for 
parents to interact with school staff while 
supporting their children™s efforts. Informational 
events such as the annual orientation for new 
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝

ˆ˙˚˙
˘
†˙˙‘˚˝’˙š˛€€˝€
†˙˙‘˚˙š˛€€˝€
†˙˙•˚€˝€˙‡€˙ˇ€˚…
—˙€€
˘ˇ’
š˛“˚˝˘˛
š˚˝˙
š˘⁄““˘˚
‹˚˛˙⁄““˘˚
ƒ˘˛˝
−˚˝˙•€

‘€€˙⁄““˘˚
˘˚˙
š˚˝˚˙•€
‰›˚˝˙„−˙•˙˙š˘
•€
˙‚˘˝˙
™˛−˚˝˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE AND PROGRESS (CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student Performance 
and Progress (CAASPP) System includes the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments 
(SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate 
Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 
students may participate in the administration of 
the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards, which are linked with the 
Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP 
results are a measure of how well students are 
mastering California™s standards in English 

are given to grades three through eight and grade 
eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance 

computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, 
and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards which are linked with the 
Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include 
overall results comparing the school, district and state scores as well as the school™s overall score 
in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown 
only for subgroups with ten students or more taking 
the exam. For those categories that are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More 
information on CAASPP can be found on the 

SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEHorace Mann School provides a safe, clean environment for learning through proper facilities 
maintenance and campus supervision. Original 
school buildings were constructed in 1929; the 
auditorium, three-story tower, classrooms, and a 
25,000 square-foot playground were added 
between 1934 and 1976. Horace Mann School has 
completed construction of two buildings and a new 
playground with the most innovative and cutting 
edge tachnology in the U.S.Horace Mann School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ
˚˚


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

˛ˇ˙˙
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝†
‘ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ
ˆ˙ˆ’˛ˇ˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˚˙˙˛ˆ˜˛˛ˆ˜˛
˛ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
˛ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˚˙˙˛ˆ˜˛˛ˆ˜˛
˛ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
˛ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛˘˛ˆ˜˛


˝


‘˝˙


’˙šˆˆ€˝˘ˆ˝˘


˝˘


‘˚
‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡…•˝˘ˆˆ—˝˛˘˚


–˛


˜⁄˚ˆˆ‹


˚˘˝˙˙›ˆ−˝˘˛
†“““

ˇ˘„˙ƒˆ˘


˛˘˛ˆ⁄ƒˆ−˝


‘˛ˆ”˛ƒ
‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡‡˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘˙ˇ˘˘˙˙˙ˇ˘˙˙
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˘ˇ˙˚˘•ˇ

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛†“‘’š
‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ˘
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛—˝
ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛†“‘€š†“ˆ
…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
ˇ

MEASURE BH BONDIn June 2019, the Beverly Hills community approved a $385 million general obligation bond (Measure BH) 



was unable to fund.  Projects to be funded with Measure BH will be reported in the 2019-20 SARC to be 
published in January 2021. MEASURE E BONDIn November 2008, the Beverly Hills community approved a $334 million general obligation bond (Measure 

and high school facilities. The ﬁMeasure E Construction Activitiesﬂ reported for 2018-19 and 2019-20 included 

SUPERVISION
 & SAFETY
guards are on duty at the nearest major intersections as students travel to and from school. Each morning as students arrive on campus, playground aides monitor the playground areas. An armed security guard is 
present for visual deterrence. He monitors the exterior buildings and streets. Two security guards share 



cafeteria. When students are dismissed at the end of the day, playground aides monitor the main exit to 
ensure a safe egress point and remain on campus until 4 p.m.  
facilitate routine and emergency communications concerning student safety. Many individuals visit the 
campus as volunteers or to participate in school events. To maintain a safe and secure environment, all 

SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was 
developed for Horace Mann School in collaboration 

Senate Bill 187 requirements.  Components of this 
plan include child abuse reporting procedures, 

disaster response procedures, procedures for safe 
arrival and departure from school, sexual 
harassment policy, and dress code policy. The 
school™s most current school site safety plan was 
reviewed, updated and shared with school staff in 
November 2019.FACILITIES MAINTENANCESchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance and operations department (M&O) 
work together to ensure playgrounds, classrooms, 
and campus grounds are well-maintained and kept 
safe and functioning for students, staff, and 
visitors. Monthly M&O meetings facilitate 
discussions concerning safety issues, 
maintenance needs, cleaning practices, and 
training. Custodians are required to comply with 

cleaning standards and policies outlined in the 
custodial handbook. Parents who wish to review 
the district™s policies may contact the Maintenance 


Maintenance & Operations (M&O) employs a work 
order process enabling Horace Mann School to 
communicate unscheduled maintenance needs, 
urgent repairs, or special projects. Teachers and 

manager who prepares and forwards an electronic 
work order to M&O for resolution. Emergency 
situations are immediately resolved either by the school custodian or district maintenance staff; 
general requests are typically addressed within 
two weeks.   Campus facilities are cleaned daily; one full-time day custodian and three full-time evening 
custodians are assigned to Horace Mann School and work closely with the principal for routine 
maintenance, daily custodial duties, and 
preparation for special events. The principal and 
day custodian communicate daily regarding 
campus cleaning needs and safety concerns. 
Every morning before school begins, the  day 
custodian inspects the facilities for safety hazards, 

prior to students and staff entering school grounds. 
Horace Mann School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
The day custodian is responsible for general 
upkeep of campus grounds and keeping 

facilities in an orderly and secure condition. The 
day custodian checks restrooms four times a day 
to ensure they are clean and adequately stocked. 
The evening custodians are responsible for 
comprehensive cleaning of classrooms, restrooms, 

include cleaning student desktops. The groundskeeper is responsible for general 
landscaping and irrigation projects throughout the  
Horace Mann campus. FACILITIES INSPECTIONSHorace Mann School works closely with the 

(M&O) for larger projects, routine facilities 
maintenance projects, and school inspections. The 
most recent facilities inspection at Horace Mann 

are required by state law to report the condition of 
their facilities; the School Facilities Good Repair 

state-required inspection areas, disclosing the 
operational status in each of those areas. The School Facilities & Safety section of the SARC 

Construction (OPSC) Facility Inspection Tool (FIT). 

inspection, and is not based on exhaustive structural analyses.  Under the FIT criteria, all 
buildings have been rated as either ﬁGoodﬂ or 
ﬁFair,ﬂ except three spaces that have already been 
closed down pending planned upgrades.

funds for seismic mitigation (SMP).  Nine of these 
are being completed under Measure E, with the 

bond.  In addition to the buildings  eligible for SMP, other 
buildings are being either modernized or replaced 
under Measure E, or a future bond. CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGHorace Mann School provides a safe, stimulating 
learning environment and takes pride in its high 
standards of scholarship and citizenship, setting a 
positive tone for the school. One of the school™s 
major goals is to develop a sense of responsibility, 
both personal and social, and to enhance each 
individual™s capacity for self-discipline.
Character education instruction and discipline 
models are based upon the district™s character 
education program, the Pyramid of Success, 
character development program created and 
successfully utilized by famed UCLA basketball 
coach John Wooden.  Each month students focus 
on the blocks that make up the pyramid such as Hard Work & Enthusiasm, Friendship & Loyalty, 

Alertness & Action, Fitness & Skill, Team Spirit, 
Poise & Confidence, and Personal Best.  Each 
month the corresponding trait is emphasized in 
themed activities and class discussions. All school 
staff encourage students to practice the Pyramid 
of Success while at school and at home. This 
program will further be supported by a partnership 
with the Maple Counseling Center which works 
with Horace Mann students in various grade levels.Teachers have established grade-appropriate 
classroom management and incentive programs 
to maintain an effective learning environment. All 
parents and students are required to sign the 
contract™s acknowledgement form to confirm 
receipt and understanding. 


˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

ˇ
†“
Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the classroom when students choose not to follow school 
expectations. Students who continue to make poor choices in conduct are referred to the assistant principal; 
consequences and disciplinary action are based upon the student™s past behavioral trend and severity of 
ENRICHMENT ACTIVITIESStudents are encouraged to participate in Horace Mann School™s extracurricular activities as well as take 
advantage of city-sponsored programs. These activities promote positive attitudes, encourage achievement, 
and instill a sense of belonging among students. The city™s parks and recreation department offers a variety 





CLASS SIZE
the distribution of class sizes by grade level, the average class size, and the number of classes that contain 
1-20 students, 21-32 students, and 33 or more students.Horace Mann School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card

and veteran teachers in developing their teaching 


second-year credentialed teachers and provides 
skills assistance over a two-year period. New 
Teacher Orientation is provided over a two-day 
period at the beginning of the school year for all 


overview of general policies and practices; 
curriculum and instruction; and technology based tools.  The Peer Assistance and Review program is 
designed to improve the education for students and 
increase the classroom performance of teachers, 
targeting both new and veteran teachers.
teacher leaders, administrators, and support staff are 
encouraged to participate in workshops sponsored 


related training from vendors, department 
supervisors, and district representatives. The district 

staff; topics include general instruction on basic 
INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
All textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout 

being aligned to the California State Standards. 
Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected 
from the state™s most recent list of standards-based 
materials and adopted by the State Board of Education. Instructional materials for grades 9-12 are standards-based and approved by the district™s 
Board of Education. The district follows the State 
Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core content 
materials and for textbook adoptions in foreign 
language, visual and performing arts, and health. 

the year following the state™s adoption. For a period 
of 30 days prior to adoption, parents may visit the 

recommended for adoption by the Board of 
Education.

certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional 
materials have been provided to students. The Board 
of Education adopted Resolution #2019-2020-004 

§60119 that (1) textbooks and instructional materials 
were provided to all students, including English 
Learners, in the district to the extent that each pupil 
has a textbook or instructional materials, or both, to use in class and to take home to complete required 
instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English Learners, in math, 

language arts, including the English language 
development component of an adopted program, 
consistent with the cycles and content of the 
instructional materials were provided to each pupil 
enrolled in foreign language or health classes, and 

available for science laboratory classes offered in 
grades 9-12 inclusive. In addition to the core subject areas, districts are 


students enrolled in elective classeswere been 
provided with a textbook or supplemental materials 
to use in class and to take home. These materials 
are in alignment with the California State Standards.SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Horace Mann School is a responsibility 
shared among school administrators, instructional staff, and parents. Teamwork among the principal, 
assistant principal, and school leadership team 
ensures both curricular and operational components 
of Horace Mann function properly. 
˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˛˝˘˝˛˜
˜˛˜˘˝
˙˛˝˙
˙˝˙
˝
˙˝
˛ˇ˝˙
˜˛˜˘˝
˙˛˛˛˘˝
˙˙˝˙
˝
˛˝
˙ˇ˜˙˘˝˙
˜˝˙
˛˝
˙˛˜˘˝˜˛
˝˙
˝˜˛


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘
ˇ





‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙
ˇ˘
˜˚
ˇ˘
˘˘˘˘
˘˘˘
˘˘
˘“†˘
˘˘’˘š€•
˘‡˘˘
˘˘•˘
˘…˘˘˘“˘“˙—
˘˘˘
˘˘˘–†˘
˘—ƒ⁄‹
˘⁄…˘˘
†
˘˘⁄˘›˘—†
˘⁄—˘›˘⁄˙
˘−ƒ…˘‹ƒ˘˘
˘˘š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTA
FF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement activities 

the California State Standards. Staff development 

the results of staff surveys, state assessment results, 
Horace Mann School sponsors supplemental site-
based staff training activities on late start 

level collaboration time, teaching staff concentrated 


19 school year, professional development activities 
Ł College Career Preparedness
Ł English Language Arts
Ł Ensuring Connections Between Students and   School Staff
Ł Improvement in Levels of Understanding in 
Ł MathematicsŁ Providing Opportunities for Meaningful Participation 
  in SchoolŁ School ConnectednessŁ Science  Ł Social-Emotional LearningŁ Technology
Throughout the year Horace Mann School™s teachers 
are given the opportunity to attend professional 
conferences, returning to campus to share and train 
fellow teachers on the innovations and strategies 
learned as they relate to current practices and 
programs. Attendance and participation is based on 
each individual teacher™s areas of expertise and 
responsibility.


professional development days, which focused on 
common assessments and how best to utilize these 
assessments to monitor student progress (grades K-12). A portion of training activities were led by 
administrators and educational consultants at school 
sites and at articulation meetings held in various 
workshops offered during the 2016-17, 2017-18, and 
˜˚˛˛˛˝˚˝˛˝˝˙
ˆ
˝

˜˝˛

˝˝
˛
ˆ
˜



˛˝˛˝
˝
ˆ
˜

˛˛˛

˜
˛˜˝


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˇ˘
˘ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘
˘
˘ˇ˘˘˘˘˘˘
˝˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘
˘



“‘
’“
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
Horace Mann School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
The principal is responsible for day-to-day operations 
and the overall instructional program; the assistant 
principal oversees student discipline, school safety, 
SST process, special education programs, and 
positive reinforcement programs. Principal Bugbee 

school year.  
As part of the principal™s decision-making process, 
feedback, advice, and input from instructional staff 
through the leadership team, grade level teams, 
intervention team, and department teams are used to 
guide curricular programs. The school™s leadership 
team is comprised of the principal, assistant principal, 
counselor, grade level representatives,  department 
representatives, Title I program representatives, and 
School Site Council representatives. The leadership 
team collaborates approximately once a month to 
identify ways to improve student learning, discuss 
current issues on campus, resolve concerns, plan 
agendas for teacher planning time, plan staff 
development activities, and implement programs 
aligned to school goals and student achievement. 
Grade level and department representatives serve as 
liaisons between school administrators and their 
grade level teams and departments. The School Site Council (SSC) is comprised of 
administrators, teachers, and parents and meets once a month. The SSC is responsible for reviewing 
and approving the school site plan, the school safety 
plan, and annual budget. Council members serve as 
a liaison between the school and community.
SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is currently being aligned to the California State Standards approved 
by the State Board of Education. Every child receives 
a rigorous, well-balanced California Common Core 
State Standards aligned program. Horace Mann 
School structures its educational program so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their 
learning level. To ensure the success of every 
student, teachers use a variety of instructional 
techniques using research-based instructional 
materials and strategies. Students who regularly experience academic, social, 

to the Student Success Team (SST).  The SST is 
responsible for addressing barriers that impact the 
ability of a student to perform at his or her best in 

services to meet the child™s unique needs, and 
subsequently evaluating progress and modifying 
instruction as needed over time. A variety of strategies 
are considered to help promote academic success 
and may include but are not limited to differentiated 
class instruction, one-to-one tutoring, small group 
SPECIAL EDUCATION
 SERVICES
Horace Mann School has adopted the Specialized 
Academic Instruction (SAI) model to service students 
with an IEP and qualifying for special education 
support. The special education program is supported 

mainstreamed as much as possible into the general 
education classroom and provided instruction in the 
least restrictive environment. One speech therapist and one psychologist provide designated services 
based upon student needs. A team of 6.5 special 
education teachers are responsible for providing 
academic support to students with special needs. 
Among the team of teachers are two credentialed moderate-to-severe support specialists. Push-in and pull-out instructional support is designed to help 
students understand lesson assignments, modify 
lessons to accommodate students™ abilities, and 

general education experiences. Each student™s 
curricular agenda is based upon their Individual 
Education Plan (IEP), which is reviewed and updated 
annually by the school™s IEP teams. The IEP ensures 
students with disabilities have equal access to core 
curriculum and educational opportunities and 
coordinates specially-designed instruction based 

needs.  ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘†
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘’ˇ˘ˇ€˘•
ˆ˘
‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘
••˘—˘–˘˘•ˇ
ˆ˘˛⁄˘˜˘‹˘“˘‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘••˘—˘–˘˘

ˇˆ˘˜˘‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˛‘˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˇ—˘–˘
–˘
‡˘˜˚˛…
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„–
”ˇ„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„‚˘
—˘
ˇ„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘••˘˘ˆ˘„
„
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘ˆ
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘•ˆ˘ˆ
˜˚˚‰˙ˆˇ˘’ˆ˘˘˘™˘’ˇ˘ˆ
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„ﬂ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„€ˆ˘’ˆ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„€‹˘Ł„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘ˆˇ„
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘•
˜˚˚ﬁ˙ˆˇ˘˘™ˆˇ˘ˇ†˘˘˘ˆ˘•

•„Œ˘Ł
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–˘˘ﬂ
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–ˆƒ˘˘ﬂ
˘‹˘
ˆ†
˜˚˛‰˙ˆˇ˘€Šˇ˘˘–ˆƒ˘‚˘
–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
”ˇ

ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘

’ˇ˘ˆˇ
’˘˘’ˇ˘
ﬂ˘€˘Œ
ˇˇ€ˆıˇ˘
˘–˘
ˇ
™˘˘
”˘ˆ˘

ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTION
to teach English Learners. K-5 EL students are provided differentiated instruction in the general education 

acquisition skills, academic achievement, and cross-cultural skills. One part-time EL teacher provides 
instruction for beginning level English Learners in both individual and small group setting; lessons focus on 
language development, reading skills, vocabulary development, reteaching class lessons, and front-loading 

to monitor their performance through the ELPAC and adjusts instruction as needed to ensure continued 
success. GIFTED & TALENTED EDUCATION
Horace Mann School offers a Gifted and Talented Education program for students  who have been 
recognized as high achievers by their teachers and through district testing.  The goal of the GATE program 
is to provide original, interdisciplinary curricula that challenges and inspires gifted students.  The curriculum 
is differentiated to provide a variety of instructional strategies structured so that individual student 
Horace Mann School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SARC DATA
 & INTERNET ACCESSDATA
QUEST

information about Horace Mann School and comparisons of the school to the district, the 

for school accountability, including but not limited 
to, CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 


statistics.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATION
Parents may access Horace Mann School™s SARC 
and access the internet at any of the county™s 
public libraries.  The closest library to Horace Mann 
School is the Beverly Hills Public Library located at 
www.bhpl.org


INTERVENTION
 PROGRAMSHorace Mann School hosts a series of intervention programs to meet the needs of those students not meeting 

in one or more of Horace Mann School™s intervention programs typically comes from the Student Success 


for elective courses for students in grades K-8.  
Ł After-school tutoring provided by community volunteers through the recreation department. Parents may 
contact the center directly to arrange tutoring sessions.PROFESSIONAL STA
FFTEACHER ASSIGNMENT

and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of 
competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher 

authorization to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.SUPPORT SERVICES
 STA
FFSupport services staff are instrumental in improving 
student attendance and achievement through the 

or emotional concerns. The counselor provides academic guidance,  
conducts classroom visits to discuss social issues 

diverse issues interfering with a student™s ability to 
learn and succeed in school. The district™s 
technology™s specialist works with students and staff 
to identify 1) technology-based tools, 2) software 
programs, and 3) teacher training to support and 
improve academic achievement. Horace Mann School welcomes volunteers from the 
city™s Maple Center, a regional counseling center, 
which sponsors activities and discussions on social 

available to assist with academic, social, and 
emotional issues as well as provide assessments to 
determine eligibility for special education services and 
to facilitate coordination of Individual Education Plans 
(IEP). The nurse conducts health screening 

aid as well as consistent, comprehensive health care 
services. ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆ˝˚ˆ˚ˆ˘
ˆ˝˚ˆ˚ˆ˘
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇˇˇˆ˜ˆ˘˘€…
ˇ˜˜—˝—˘–
˜ˇ˜˜ˇˆ
ƒ€⁄ƒ‹›
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

ˇ

ˆ˝˜

ˇ

“˝ˆˇ

‘˝ˇ



˝

€˘ˇ˝ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙
˙˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
ˇ

Horace Mann School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT EXPENDITURESSALARY
 & BUDGET COMPARISONState law requires comparative salary and budget 
information to be reported to the general public. For 

Education has provided average salary data from 
school districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state.EXPENDITURES PER STUDENT

general funds to educate each student (based on 

this report 1) compares the school™s per pupil 
expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted 
(supplemental) sources with other schools in the 
district and throughout the state, and 2) compares 
the average teacher salary at the school site with 
average teacher salaries at the district and state 





excluding food services, facilities acquisition and 
construction, and certain other expenditures.)
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, state, 
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
˜˚˛˝˙
˝ˆˇˆ

˙
˝
ˇˆ
˜˝
‘’š€˝
˚ˆ˝
‡˝—
–˝
‘˝

˚˝

˝˝
‡˜⁄—
˝

ˆˇˆ˝
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
†“˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†‘˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
’š€
‡
‡
‡
‡
‘˘ˇ˘—˝˙˘–
ƒ•’‡
‡
‡
‡
˘ˇ˘—ˇ–
’š€⁄‹•
•›€‹−•
’‹•‰
−€„‹−
⁄−−‰
†“
−š€ƒ„šƒ‹‹•‹•‰−’€•‹−‰
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
