Jefferson Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
JEFFE
RSON
 ELEM
ENTARY
 SCHOOL
Grades K-5Robert Estrada, Principalrobert_estrada@lennoxk12.org  David Chavez, Assistant Principal
david_chavez@lennoxk12.org           10322 Condon Avenue, Lennox, CA 90304
(310) 680-5650 Ł  FAX (310) 672-5031
SCHOOL
 ACCOUNTABILITY
 REPORT
 CARD
2018-19 
SCHOOL
 ACTIVITY
 PUBLISHED
 IN
 DECEMBER
 2019
PRINCIPAL
™S MESSAGE
Welcome to Jefferson Elementary School, 
where we are proud of the progress we have 
made over the past five years. At the school 
site level and through Effective Lesson Design 
in English Language Arts, it provides strategies 
to guide improvement  to students using 
assessment results. In addition, Swun math is 
used for teaching mathematics in grades K-5. These programs dictate two hours of direct 
instruction in reading and 90-minutes in math 
for grades 1-5. In addition, all English Language 
Learners receive specific daily ELD instruction 
in groups based on developmental levels. 
Finally, our exceptional parent volunteer group 
continues to grow, supporting the belief that the 
most successful students have strong family support in the home and a presence at school. 
As always, we invite you to visit our programs to 
see outstanding teaching and our strong focus 
on learning.DISTRICT
 VISION
The Lennox School District is dedicated to providing our students an education that 
emphasizes:Ł  Cradle to College - Preparing students   academically from birth to career.
Ł  Community - Embracing the role of parents   as partners in the educational process.Ł  Culture of Caring - Encouraging committed    employees to support students and their    families socially, emotionally and academically.
Ł  Continuity - Entrusting that each generation   achieves and excels, and returns to the   Lennox Community to give back.DISTRICT
 MISSION
Every Lennox School District student will 
successfully transition to college or career.
JEFFERSON
 SCHOOL
 MISSION
At Jefferson School, we believe that every 
child in every classroom can and will achieve 
success.JEFFERSON
 SCHOOL
 VISION
Yes, I can persevere! I can come to school 
everyday, all day, and on time. I can read 
and practice math facts everyday. I can do 
my homework everyday. I can try my best 
everyday. Yes, I can celebrate success!
SCHOOL
 PROFILE
Jefferson Elementary School serves students 
in grades kindergarten through five following 
a traditional calendar. At the beginning of 
the 2018-19 school year, 918 students were 
enrolled, including 9.7% in special education, 
54.7% qualifying for English Language Learner 
support, 93.7% qualifying for free or reduced 
price lunch, 0.5% foster youth, and 23.1% 
homeless youth.  ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘
˘


˘€
•

˘š
˘‘
˘
’…ˇˇ
˘‡
’—˚˙

˘†
’ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

•˚ˇ„–

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
…ˇ”ˇ
‚

‚ˇ
™˙

˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
ˇ˘
Jefferson Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł  Efforts the school district makes to seek 
    parent input in making decisions for the     school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł  Statewide assessments (i.e., California     Assessment of Student Performance and 
    Progress (CAASPP) System, which     includes the Smarter Balanced Summative     Assessments for students in the general
    education population and the California    Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for English
    language arts/literacy (ELA) and    mathematics given in grades three through    eight and grade eleven.  Only eligible    students may participate in the    administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items    are aligned with alternate achievement    standards, which are linked with the    Common Core State Standards (CCSS)    (for students with the most significant     cognitive disabilities).Ł  The percentage of students who have 
     successfully completed courses that satisfy      the requirements for entrance to the      University of California and the California      State University, or career technical 
     education sequences or programs of study.
Ł  The percentage of students who have 
     successfully completed courses that      satisfy the requirements for entrance to      the University of California and the      California State University, or career 
     technical education sequences or      programs of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł  High school dropout ratesŁ  High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł  Pupil suspension ratesŁ  Pupil expulsion ratesŁ  Other local measures on the sense of safety
State Priority 7: Course Access 
(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes 
(Pupil Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł  Pupil outcomes in the subject area of    physical education.Teachers continue to employ innovative 
strategies to improve student™s reading 
fluency and reading comprehension. Jefferson 
Elementary staff use student assessment 
results to identify struggling students for in-
class reading intervention. Schoolwide instruction focuses heavily on 
building literacy skills. Using the results of 
a universal screening process, students 
with the greatest needs received additional 
support in language arts instruction. Progress 
is monitored every six weeks and student 
rotations adjusted accordingly.
Jefferson Elementary provides grade level 
intervention to facilitate individualized 
intensive reading support in small group 
settings. Students™ academic areas of need 
are identified  through analysis of student 
performance on the district™s benchmark 
assessments. Based on level of proficiency, 
students received intensive support by 
credential teachers following Lexia Core 5, 
Literacy or Reading Mastery curricula.  Students in grades K-5 may participate in the 
district™s LEAP after school program offered 
on campus Monday through Friday until 6:00 p.m. Structured enrichment activities, 
sports, fine arts, cheer leading, field trips, and 
homework support are supervised by qualified 
staff. Participants are provided a nutritious 
snack.LOCAL
 CONTROL
 ACCOUNTABILITY
 PLAN
 (
LCAP
)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP) that supports the priorities for the state of California.  The following components 
of this SARC address some of the priorities 
:State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł  Degree to which teachers are appropriately      assigned and fully credentialed in the      subject area for the pupil they are teaching.Ł  Pupils have access to standards-aligned     instructional materials; and school facilities     are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement) The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:PARENT
 INVOLVEMENT
Parents are encouraged to get involved in 
their child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating in 
a decision-making group, or simply attending 
school events. Parents stay informed on 
upcoming events and school activities 
through a monthly calendar, letters, School 
Messenger, and the school website. Contact 
the school office at (310) 680-5650 for more 
information on how to become involved in 
your child™s learning environment.
Volunteer to:
Ł Help in the classroomŁ Organize fundraisersŁ Work on the Parent Volunteer Group
   to help with administrative projects   (i.e., copying)Join Leadership GroupsŁ School Site CouncilŁ English Learner Advisory Council
Ł Parent Teacher Association
Ł Superintendent™s Advisory Council
Attend Special Events & Workshops
Ł Access library resources; read to students
Ł Annual Family Literacy Day
Ł Back to School NightŁ Book FairsŁ English as a Second Language classesŁ Fall CarnivalŁ Math/Technology Literacy Night
Ł Open HouseJefferson Elementary is taking steps to 
empower parents with the tools to strengthen 
the parent-child bond and increase parent 
engagement at home as well as at school. 
On-campus training workshops teach families how to build relationships between 
home and school, 2) instill core ethical 
values and personal accountability, and 3) 
equip parents with the resources to be the 
primary protective agent for their child.Jefferson Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


“˝˙


˝˘ˆ˝˘
šššššššššššššššššššš’˝˘
šššššššššššššššššššš€’ˆˆ•˝˛’˘˚


…—’˛–˘˚˛ˆ€ƒ
šššššššššššššššššššš’˝˙˙⁄ˆ‹˝˘˛


ˇ˘−˙’—ˆ


˛ˆ‰’˛—ˆ‹’˙’˛’


“˛ˆ„—
šššššššššššššššššššš˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘
˚˘ˇˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ

ˆ

STUDENT
 ACHIEVEMENT
PHYSICAL
 FITNESS
In the spring of each year, Jefferson 
Elementary School is required by the 
state to administer a physical fitness test 
to all students in fifth grade. The physical 
fitness test measures each student™s 
ability to complete six fitness tasks in six major areas. Students that either meet 
or exceed the standards in all six fitness 
areas are considered to be physically fit or 
in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative District and state results can be found at 
the CDE™s web site www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/
pf/.CALIFORNIA
 ASSESSMENT
 OF
 STUDENT
 PERFORMANCE
 AND
 PROGRESS
 (
CAASPP
)The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 
significant cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration of 
the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how 
well students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) 
and mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests 
assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive 
tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement 
standards which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district 
and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are 
shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that 
are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can 
be found on the California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ



˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙
˘˚˛ˆˆ˚˛ˇ˝ˇˇˆˇˆ˝
˛
ˆ˙ˆ˛ˇ˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
†
˚˛˙
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
Jefferson Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł General CleaningŁ Restroom CleaningŁ Cafeteria Setup/CleanupŁ Debris RemovalŁ Routine Maintenance and Minor RepairsRestrooms are checked throughout the day 
for cleanliness and subsequently cleaned 
as needed. The afternoon custodians are 
responsible for:Ł Office Area Cleaning
Ł Restroom CleaningŁ Classroom CleaningThe principal and assistant principal 
communicate with the lead custodian  
informally throughout the day to address 
maintenance and school safety issues.SCHOOL
 SITE
 SAFETY
 PLAN
The Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for Jefferson Elementary 
in collaboration with local agencies and 
the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 
requirements.  Components of this plan 
include child abuse reporting procedures, teacher notification of dangerous pupil 
SCHOOL
 FACILITIES
 & 
SAFETY
SUPERVISION
 & 
SAFETY
When students arrive on campus in the morning, they are directed to their 
classrooms and receive breakfast before instruction beginning at 7:45 to 8:10. 
During recess, three staff members monitor 
student behavior on the playground. 
During the lunch recess, four noon duty 
aides share supervision of students in the 
cafeteria and on the playground. When 
students are dismissed at the end of the 
day, teachers escort their students to the 
two exit areas; each gate is supervised by 
a paraprofessional or an administrator to 
ensure students leave campus in a safe and 
orderly manner. 
The school is a closed and fully secured 
campus with perimeter fencing. All parents 
and visitors are required to check in at the 
school office upon arrival, obtain and wear 
a visitor™s badge, and then return to the 
school office upon departure. A security 
guard, provided through district™s funds is on 
campus daily from 7:15 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. FACILITIES
 MAINTENANCE
The district takes great efforts to ensure that 
all schools are clean, safe, and functional through proper facilities maintenance and 
campus supervision. Jefferson Elementary 
School™s original facilities were built in 
1910; ongoing maintenance and campus 
improvements ensure facilities remain up to date and provide adequate space for students and staff.  
District maintenance and site custodial 
staff ensure that the repairs necessary 
to keep the school in good condition are completed in a timely manner. A work order 
process is used by school and district staff 
to communicate non-routine maintenance 
requests. Emergency repairs are given the 
highest priority. 
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Orange building received sound attenuation 
    project with addition of new windowsEvery morning before school begins, the 
lead day custodian inspects facilities for safety hazards or other conditions that need 
attention prior to students and staff entering 
school grounds. Two full-time day and three 
full-time afternoon custodians are assigned to Jefferson Elementary School. The day 
custodians are responsible for:procedures, disaster response procedures, 
procedures for safe arrival and departure 
from school, sexual harassment policy, dress 
code policy, and bully prevention policy. 
The school™s most current safety plan was 
reviewed, updated, and shared with school staff in February 2019.
FACILITIES
 INSPECTIONS
The district™s maintenance department 
inspects Jefferson Elementary School on an 
annual basis in accordance with Education Code §17592.72(c)(1).  Jefferson Elementary 
School uses a school site inspection survey 
to identify unsafe or hazardous conditions and facility improvement needs. The most 
recent school inspection took place on 
November 27, 2018.  During fiscal year 2018-19, all restrooms were fully functional 
and available for student use at the time of 
the inspection.CLASSROOM
 ENVIRONMENT
DISCIPLINE
 & 
CLIMATE
 FOR
 LEARNING
At Jefferson Elementary, all staff believe 
that a safe learning environment is an 
effective learning environment. Schoolwide 
discipline policies are founded upon a 
combination of the district™s assertive 
discipline model, Character Counts, and 
Bullying Prevention program. Teachers 
have established individual, grade 
appropriate classroom management plans in 
accordance with district™s assertive discipline 
policies. Concentrations are placed in 
redirecting behavior, allowing students to 
take responsibility for their actions and 
demonstrate self-control through good 
decision-making practices.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝

ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝†˙“˛‘‘˝‘
˙˚˙“˛‘‘˝‘
š˙€˚‘˝‘˙‘˙ˇ‘˚•
‘‘
˛˝˙“˚˝
“˘€
˙
…—˚˝˙–ƒ˙€
“˚˝˘˛⁄‹˘›ˇ˝˚˙€
‡˘’˝˛˝
“˚˝˙‡˛’
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˝˙˜ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘


˘

ˇ˙˛
˜˚ˇ˘˙˛
†“˘˚˙˛˛
‘“˙ˆˇ˘ˆ
’˙˛ˇ˛š˚˛
˙ˇ
ˇˇ
‘€ˇ



“
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆ˝˛ˇˆ
‘€˝“•˛ˆ˙˙ˇ˛ˇ“˛ˇ
—˘ˆ˘˙˚ˆ˘˙˛˘
˛˘…˚˘˘ˆ˘ˇ
˛“ˇ˛ˆ—
˛˝˝˛˘˚
˛˘˚ˇ
˘˙ˇ
’
–ˆˇ˘•“
‘€˝“
Jefferson Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
At the beginning of the school year, 
school policies, safety rules and behavior 
expectations are provided in each student™s 
ﬁBack-to-Schoolﬂ packet and reinforced at grade level assemblies (grades TK-5) led 
by the assistant principal and counselor. 
As needed throughout the year, school 
administrators and teachers remind students 
to conduct themselves in a safe, responsible, 
and respectful manner:Ł At ﬁrefresherﬂ assemblies (grades K-5)
Ł In articles printed in the newsletterŁ In memos sent home to parentsŁ ﬁAll callsﬂ to students™ homes
Progressive disciplinary measures begin in 
the classroom when students are disruptive or demonstrating poor citizenship. Students who continue to make poor choices in 
conduct are referred to an administrator. 
Consequences and disciplinary action are 
based upon the student™s past behavioral 
trend and severity of infraction. Discipline 
measures are consistently applied in a fair 
manner. 
CELEBRATE
 SUCCESS
 AT
 J
EFFERSON
 SCHOOL
At Jefferson School we celebrate our 
student™s academic and behavior success 
during our school™s monthly Celebrate 
Success Assembly. During this assembly, 
teachers celebrate students who have 
earned:1. Student of the Month2. Blue Raffle Tickets for Positive Behavior 
    on the Playground3. Trimester Most Improved Reward
4. Trimester Perfect Attendance
SCHOOL
 UNIFORMS
School uniforms at Jefferson have also been 
a tradition since 2009 thanks to the support 
of the parents, teachers, and students. Our school uniform is a khaki pant, skirt, or short and a navy blue shirt or polo. Shirts are not 
required to have a school logo. Our school 
celebrates a close to 100% participation 
rate.development on their own time to better 
serve their students. Therefore, district and 
site-based staff development offerings are 
highly specialized and focus on the current 
needs of the district™s learning community.
During the 2018-19 school year, Jefferson 
Elementary School staff participated 
in weekly professional development 
activities which took place on early release 
days. Three afternoons each month are 
devoted to professional development 
focused on site-based training needs. The principal, in collaboration with grade 
level representatives, identifies teacher 
training needs based upon analysis of 
student performance on state assessments, 
classroom walkthroughs, formative 
assessments, reading comprehension 
assessments, teacher needs assessment, and benchmark exams. 2018-19 Site-based Training Topics
Ł CalibrationŁ California StandardsŁ Collaborative Strategic PlanningŁ Data ReflectionŁ English Language and Literacy Acceleration 
  - Direct Instruction StrategiesŁ Intervention Assessments
Ł Lexia, Swun MathŁ Mandated ReporterŁ Safety in SchoolsŁ SBAC Assessments
Ł Student Progress MonitoringŁ Support Students with DisabilitiesCurrent research and training in instructional methodology and best practice helps 
teachers to improve their skills in order to 
provide students with the best possible 
educational experience. During the 2017-
18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 school years, 
Lennox School District offered a variety 
of professional learning opportunities for 
teachers and instructional aides. Teacher 
training topics included professional 
development on the following:˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ




ˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛
†
CLASS
 SIZE
The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by grade 
level, the average class size, and the number 
of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 
students, and 33 or more students.˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝˛
˜˝˛
˛˝
˙˝˜
˝˜
˝˜
ˇ˝˜
˜˝˙
˛˝
˙˝˛
˝˜
˝˜
ˇ˝˛
˜˝˜
˛˝˜
˙˝
˝˜
˝˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ

˜˘




‘’š

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
CURRICULUM
 & 
INSTRUCTION
STAFF
 DEVELOPMENT
All curriculum and instructional improvement 
activities at Lennox School District are being 
aligned to the California State Standards. 
Staff development concentrations are 
selected and identified based on staff survey  
results, California State Standards, federal 
and state grant requirements, and student 
performance data. Teachers have agreed, as 
part of their contract, to acquire professional Jefferson Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2018-19 school year, the district 
also offered teachers the opportunity 
to attend supplementary professional 
development on the following:Ł Accessibility Supports
Ł Collaborative Teaching
Ł Dual LanguageŁ ELPAC
Ł English Language Development (ELD)Ł GoogleŁ NearpodŁ New Teacher Training
Ł Non Violent Crisis Intervention
Ł Special EducationŁ SWUN MathIn addition, the on-going collaboration 
between teachers and grade levels has been strengthened for our district and our 
academic programs. Our teachers have 
numerous opportunities to collaborate on 
best practices, grading, and discuss the best 
ways to meet the needs of all students. Lennox School District and three other local districts (Lawndale, Hawthorne, and Centinela) 
jointly support new teachers in developing their teaching skills through the New Teacher 
Induction Program, which is designed for first- and second-year teachers holding a 
preliminary credential to earn their clear teaching credential. The Peer Assistance and 
Review (PAR) program is designed to improve the education of students and increase the 
classroom performance of teachers, targeting both new and veteran teachers.Staff members are encouraged to attend professional workshops and conferences. New 
teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and support 
staff are encouraged to participate in workshops sponsored by the Los Angeles County 
Superintendent of Schools as well as the Lennox School District. Profession and subject 
specific offerings are consistent with the California State Standards.
Long-term substitute teachers are invited to school-sponsored training activities. 
Paraprofessionals receive specialized training from the principal and staff development 
specialist. Classified support staff may receive job-related training from school leadership; 
training activities and workshops are designed to enhance and extend job performance.INSTRUCTIONAL
 MATERIALS
All textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Lennox School District are being aligned to the California State Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected from 
the state™s most recent list of standards-based materials and adopted by the State Board 
of Education with the exception of SWUN Math which was adopted locally.  The district 
determined that SWUN math curriculum is in alignment with the state standards.  The district 
follows the State Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core content materials and textbook 
adoptions in foreign language, visual and performing arts, and health. The district follows the 
State Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core content materials and textbook adoptions 
in foreign language, visual and performing arts, and health.  On September 10, 2019, the Lennox School District™s Board of Trustees held a public hearing 
to certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been provided to 
students. The Board of Trustees adopted the 
Resolution Regarding Sufficiency of Instructional 
Materials No. 19-03 which certifies as required by Education Code §60119 that (1) textbooks 
and instructional materials were provided to all students, including English learners, in the 
Lennox School District to the extent that each pupil has a textbook or instructional materials, 
or both, to use in class and to take home to complete required homework assignments, 
(2) sufficient textbooks and instructional materials were provided to each student, including 
English learners, in mathematics, science, history/social science, and English/language arts, 
including the English language development component of an adopted program, consistent 
with the cycle, process, time lines, and content of the curriculum frameworks, and (3) 
sufficient textbooks or instructional materials were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign 
language or health classes.In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for its visual/performing arts curricula. During 
the 2019-20 school year, Lennox School District provided all students enrolled in a visual/
performing arts class with their own textbook or supplemental materials to use in class and 
to take home. These materials comply with the state™s content standards and curriculum 
frameworks.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˘˚˛
˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝
˜˚˚˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘ˆˇ†
ˆˇ˝ˆˇ˝˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˚
“˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‘ˇ

ˆ
˘ˆ
˙˘
ˆ’
‡ˇ˘ˆˇ
‡˘˘‡ˇ˘
—–˘˘ƒ
ˇˇˆ⁄ˇ˘
˘‹˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘€˘˘
‘˘ˆ˘








































Jefferson Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PROFESSIONAL
 STAFF
TEACHER
 ASSIGNMENT
During the 2018-19 school year, Jefferson Elementary School had 43 teachers who met all 
credential requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the 
number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without 
full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for 
English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The 
term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal 
authorization to teach that grade level, subject area, student group, etc. COUNSELING
 & 
SUPPORT
 STAFF
Jefferson Elementary School provides 
professional, highly qualified staff that 
provide additional services and support 
centered on the whole student academically, 
physically, and mentally. 
The Counseling and Support Services table 
in this report illustrates the availability of 
non-instructional support staff to Jefferson 
Elementary™s students. Full-time equivalent 
(FTE) is a standard measurement used to 
identify an employee™s regular work load 
on a weekly basis. For example, an FTE of 
1.0 designates a full-time position and the 
employee is on campus and available all 
day every day of the week; an FTE of 0.5 
indicates that the staff member is available 
and on campus a portion (50%) of the week.˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

ˇˆˇ

ˇˇ˝˜
˝
ˇ
“
ˆ‘˝
“
ˆ‘˝ˆˇšš˛
ˇ

€˜˝˚˙˝ˆˇ˝˝
˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘

˘

˘
ˇˇˇˇˇˆ
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ˜˚˜
˘‡ˇˇˇˇ˜
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˇ˜˜
˘–
ˇˇˇˇ˜ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
ƒš
‹
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
SARC
 DATA
 & 
ACCESS
DATA
QUEST
DataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about Jefferson 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.PUBLIC
 INTERNET
 ACCESS
 LOCATION
Parents may access Jefferson Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet 
in the school library, in the Jefferson 
Elementary Parent Center, or at any of the 
county™s public libraries.  The closest public 
library to Jefferson Elementary School is 
the Lennox Branch Library and Hawthorne Branch Library.
Lennox Branch LibraryExpress Location located at Lennox Park10828 Condon Avenue, Lennox
Phone Number: (310) 674-0385Hours: Mon-Fri: 2:00 p.m. - 6:00 p.m.            Sat: 1:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.            Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 7
Hawthorne Library12700 South Grevillea Avenue, Hawthorne
Phone Number: (310) 679-8193Hours: Tues & Wed: 11:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m.
             Thurs: 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
           Fri & Sat: 10:00 a.m - 5:00 p.m.           Mon & Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 16
Jefferson Elementary School Library
Hours: Mon-Fri 3:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m.Number of Computers Available: 11
Printers Available: Yes
Jefferson Elementary Parent Center
Hours: Mon-Fri 7:45 a.m. - 3:30 p.m.Number of Computers Available: 5
Printers Available: Yes
Jefferson Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT
 EXPENDITURES
SALARY
 & 
BUDGET
 COMPARISON
State law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the 
general public. For comparison purposes, 
the State Department of Education has 
provided average salary data from school 
districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state. (Note: 
2016-17 salary comparison data was the 
most recent data available at the time this 
report was published.)EXPENDITURES
 PER
 STUDENT
For the 2017-18 school year, Lennox 
School District spent an average of 
$13,415 of total general funds to educate 
each student (based on 2017-18 audited financial statements and in accordance with 
calculations defined in Education Code §41372). The table in this report 1) compares the 
school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) 
sources with other schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the 
average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and 
state levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the 
CDE web site at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown 
in the following table reflect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food 
services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.)







































In addition to general fund state funding, Lennox School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received 
categorical, special education, and support programs funds for: Ł After School Education and Safety (ASES)
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ Title I, II, III, IV
DISCLOSURE
The statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the Lennox School District. At the time of publication, this report met all 
SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data available. Data 
to prepare the instructional materials section and the school facilities section was acquired 
in December 2019. ˜˚˛˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ˚ˆ
ˆ
˘˛ˆ
ˇ˚ˆ

ˆˇ
“‘’šˆˇ
ˆˆˇ
‡ˆˇ—
–ˆˇ
“˚ˆˇ

ˇˆˇ
‡ˆˆ‹—
ˆˇ

˚ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
