Cesar Chavez Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to Cesar Chavez Elementary School, home of the Golden Bears! As principal, I have 
the privilege of introducing you to the Annual School Accountability
Report Card for Cesar Chavez Elementary School. Whether student, parent, staff, or community 
member, the data contained within these pages will prove useful in informing you about our school 
and community, including but not limited to: demographics, achievements, progress evaluation, 
ongoing goal realization, discipline, budget, and facility enhancement.As a school we are dedicated to working as a collaborative group to provide differentiated 
instruction to ensure the success of ALL students. Our school wide initiatives include: Positive 

developing all students to be 21st Century College and Career Ready through Common Core State Standards and the integration of technology. As a district, we have also begun our partnership 
with LEGO Education and have a new LEGO Innovation Lab each school campus.Sarah Amezcua, Principal
DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTION

of San Francisco.  The city is surrounded by a rich 
agricultural area producing a large portion of the nation™s fruits and vegetables.  Housing developments 
have increased in response to the rapid growth  in the 
community™s agricultural, retail, government, and 
tourism industries. The district currently operates four 
elementary schools and one middle school which 
Cesar Chavez Elementary School provides a safe, 
standards-based learning environment for studnets in 

students were enrolled.  Student demographics include 8.9% receiving special education services, 

enrolled in the free or reduced-price meal program, 
DISTRICT MISSION STATEMENT
To promote ALL students with high levels of academic and personal achievement through a 
collaborative system of support, guided by passionate, dedicated staff in a safe, nurturing, and 
culturally responsive environment that fully prepares students for future college and career success.˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ

˚˙ˆ
˘†“
˘‘

’š
˘€

’š
˘•
˘‡
˘
…ˇˇ
—˚˙
‘š
ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−
†•š
–ˇ‡“š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙
†š
…

˚ˇ„–
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
ˇ
”ˇ
‚˙
…ˇ™ˇ
”
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
Cesar Chavez Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT VISIONSTATEMENT

national leader in education ensuring high 
levels of learning and success for ALL students.
CORE VALUESWe celebrate diversity and nurture the 
gifts and talents of our students.Our schools are safe learning places for ALL.Our schools have positive cultures that 
promote meaningful relationships.We will not let each other fall.
Student success is a collective 
responsibility of ALL.
We will ensure high levels of learning for 
ALL students.

opportunities for ALL students.
ALL students, families, and staff are 
valued and treated with respect.We value our parents and community as 
partners in education.ALL means ALL.
SCHOOL VISION STATEMENT
Cesar Chavez provides rigorous instruction and 
creative opportunities for all students. We strive 
to build critical and creative thinkers who are 

that have everything it takes to be successful 
in life. This goal can best be achieved through 
collaboration with all stakeholders. Together we 
can help our students reach their full potential. LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY
 PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 

develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 

of California.  The following components of this 

in the State™s LCAP:
State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject  area and for the pupils they are teaching.Pupils have access to standards-aligned instructional materials; and School 
facilities are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards(Conditions of Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
State Priority 3: Parental Involvement(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
 school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress [CAASPP] System, which includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general education population and the California Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for English 
language arts/literacy [ELA] and 
mathematics given in grades three through 
eight and grade eleven. Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs. CAAs items are aligned with alternate achievement standards, which are linked with the Common Core State Standards [CCSS] for 

The percentage of students who have successfully completed courses that satisfy 




The percentage of students who have successfully completed courses that satisfy 




State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: High school dropout ratesHigh school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Pupil suspension ratesOther local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access (Conditions 
of Learning)The SARC does not recover any of the 
State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes (PupilOutcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: Pupil outcomes in the subject area of physical education.The following components encompass our 
district™s LCAP goals:  
Culture:  We will cultivate positive school 
environments that are culturally, emotionally, 
and physically safe led by passionate staff 
members dedicated to and advocating for ALL 
students, their families, and our community.
Academics:  We will take collective responsibility 
for providing a guaranteed, viable curriculum in 
ALL subject areas so that ALL students meet or 

standards through effective, data-drive 
instructional practices that ensure ALL students 
are fully prepared for college and career success.Community:  We will actively engage our family, 
school, and community partners through ongoing communication and outreach because 
we value, respect, and believe we are stronger together in ensuring and advocating for the 
future success of ALL our students.
PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to school and student success.  Cesar Chavez Elementary School offers a wide variety of 
opportunities for parents to support the school 
and their child™s academic efforts through 
volunteering efforts.
Volunteer to Help
ClassroomsFundraising Activities 
Join Leadership GroupsSchool Site Council English Learner Advisory Council



Volunteer/Attend Special Events &
Workshops
Back to School NightOpen HouseParent Education Workshops
Triple P Workshop
Parent Teacher Conference

Annual Musicals & Assemblies
Parents seeking more information or who are interested in participating in any of the activities 
listed above may contact the community liaison 
SCHOOL NEWSRegular school-to-home communication, 
provided in both English and Spanish, keeps parents up to date on student progress and school issues. Every month a newsletter is sent 
home and includes current school news and 
other announcements as necessary. Flyers are 

Messaging is used. A calendar of events is 

information can be found on the school website 

uses Facebook and Twitter to announce 
upcoming events and to stay in touch with both 
parents and students.
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENTCALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE AND PROGRESS (CAASPP)


cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs.  
CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the Common 


grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs 
test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district 
and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ


˜˙˜˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ
˚˘˚ˇˇ˚
˘˚˚ˆˇ˘
ˇ˚˝
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ
˝˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘
ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
“
˜˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••‘‡˚
••••••••••••••••••••…ˆˆ—˝˛


–˛
••••••••••••••••••••˜⁄˚ˆˆ‹
••••••••••••••••••••˝˙˙›ˆ−˝˘˛



ˇƒˆ


˛ˆ⁄˛ƒˆ−˛


˛ˆ‹‰˝˘˛ˆˇ˝˛˚˘ˆ‰



‘˛ˆ”ƒ
••••••••••••••••••••˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘
˚˘ˇˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ
ˆ˝ˆˆ˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ
…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ
‡˝ˆ˘˛†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆ

shown only for subgroups with ten students or 

that are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on 
CAASPP can be found on the California 

ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.DISTRICT BENCHMARK ASSESSMENTS
its own comprehensive assessments to measure student progress in meeting district and state standards in both language arts and 
math.  Students in grades TK-8 are evaluated 
three times using the i-Ready program, and periodically throughout the year using grade-level, essential standards benchmarks.  

identify students for additional academic 



supplemental training in either course curriculum or instructional strategies.PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of each year, Cesar Chavez 

physical fitness test to all students in grades 
five and seven. The physical fitness test 
measures each student™s ability to complete 


˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ
˝ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
˘
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ
˚˛˝˚˚



supervised by yard duty supervisors. The 

duty personnel carry hand-held radios to 
facilitate routine and emergency 
communications.To maintain a safe and secure environment 
while classes are in session, all parents and 


departure.SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANA Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was 
initially developed for Cesar Chavez Elementary 
in collaboration with local law enforcement and 


child abuse reporting procedures, teacher 

harassment policy, procedures for safe arrival 
and departure from school, and dress code policy. Cesar Chavez Elementary™s most current 
school safety plan was reviewed and updated  
in February 2019.  In August 2019 the plan was 
shared with school staff. An updated copy of the 
school site safety plan is available to the public 

MONTEREY COUNTY WILLIAMS FACILITIES INSPECTIONOn an annual basis, representatives from the Monterey County Superintendent of Schools 

inspection is designed to evaluate and verify that school facility conditions are in ﬁgood repairﬂ 

physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ 

ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYCesar Chavez Elementary provides a safe, clean environment for learning through proper 
facilities maintenance and campus supervision. 
The campus is entirely fenced in, and is a completely enclosed and secure environment in which students can learn.  Once school is in 
session, all gates are closed and visitors must 
2018-19 Campus Improvement Projects:Painting of the classroom doorsAddition of new 21st century classroom  
furniture in all classroomsInstallation of benches in the front of the  
schoolLandscaping projects to the front of the  
school2019-20 Campus Improvement Projects Planned or in Progress:Remodel of the school lobby and front 
Redesign of the playground area and repainting/restriping playground areaAddition of one new portable for the 

CAMPUS SUPERVISION
As students arrive on campus in the morning, yard duty supervisors monitor student activity until 8:05 a.m. in the multipurpose room, and 
teachers on duty are in the playground area 

recess, teachers share supervisory responsibilities of playground activity. A yard 
support program provides monitored student 
yard duty supervisors monitor students on the playground. At the end of the day, kindergarten 
students are released from their rooms or the cafeteria to their parents through a gate in their 
area.  Students in grades K-2 who are being picked up by parents are lined up at the front 
gate and released directly to their parents.  

their classrooms to the cafeteria for parent pick 
up. Those students who ride buses in 
kindergarten are escorted by yard duty supervisors to the bus loading area while ˜˚˛˝˙˜ˆˇ˘
˜ˆˇ˘˛˚˚˛




ˇ˚
˜˚˛˝˜˙ˆ˛ˇ˝˘˜ˆ˘˜
˝
˜ˆ˚˛˛ˇ
˛ˆ˛ˇˇ˙
˛˙˙˜˙˝˘˜˜
ˆ˝
†
“˛ˇ˚ˇ‘

˜ˆ˜˝˘˜˜
˛˙˝
˚˚˙
˝˛˙˜˛˚ˆ˘˜˝
†’˚ˆ
˜˝˜˘˜
˝˘˜˝˘˜ˆ˝˘˜ˆ˝



˛˙˙˜
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆ˝˛ˇˆ
ˇ˛˝˚˚ˆˆˆ
˛˛˝˚˙˝ˇ˛˘˙
˝ˇ˙ˆ
ˆ˚˛ˇ˛ˆ˝
˛˙˚˚
“˛˙˚˚
“˛˙€˛˛
˚•˛ˆˆ˛
‡…˛˝˙˛˙˚˚
†’˛˝˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˙ˇ

˙
˙˙

ˆ
˙ˆˆ˛
†“
‘ˆˇ˛“’
’˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

˙
˚˛˙˜
˛ˇ


reported in the School Accountability Report 
Cards. The most recent facility inspection 
completed by the county took place on September 9, 2019.  Results of the inspection and corrective action taken by the district are provided in the table below.
SCHOOL INSPECTIONS
an annual comprehensive inspection of school 
facilities, paying close attention to designated 


The most recent facilities inspection at Cesar 


2018-19 school year, 100% of student 
restrooms were fully operational and available for use at all times.CAMPUS MAINTENANCEThe custodial staff and district™s maintenance 
department work together and communicate at  
least every other day to ensure playgrounds, 
classrooms, and campus grounds are well-
maintained and kept safe and functioning for 


comprehensive set of cleaning standards to ensure campus facilities are maintained in good repair and kept safe for students and 
cleaning standards by contacting the district™s 

One full-time day and two full-time evening custodians are assigned to Cesar Chavez Elementary School for daily cleaning of restrooms, cafeteria, classrooms, and 
Maintenance and Operations and a part-time Cesar Chavez Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
maintenance custodian are available during the 

the school day.  
Maintenance and Operations employs an 
electronic, web-based work order system that enables school staff to communicate its 
maintenance needs. Teachers and school staff 



Maintenance of Operations. The director 
evaluates, prioritizes, and then forwards the 

routine maintenance. Larger and more 
specialized projects are typically outsourced to third party contractors.  Emergencies and urgent 
situations are typically resolved immediately. 
All staff share the responsibility to report  safety 
hazards or other conditions that need immediate 

removed prior to students arriving on campus. The principal communicates with Maintenance 
and Operations staff as needed to manage 
safety concerns, cleaning practices, and maintenance needs.CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTCLASS SIZE
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by grade 
level, the average class size, and the number 
STUDENT RECOGNITIONCesar Chavez Elementary™s staff celebrate student learning and positive behavior at school 

awards honor students who have demonstrated outstanding effort in respectfulness, responsibility, 
safety and academic progress. Students with no absences in a month earn a Perfect Attendance 
award that month and, if there are no absences for the entire year, they are honored with a Perfect 
Attendance award at the end-of-the-year assembly.  Students have the opportunity to earn the 




awarded a medal for each 25 hours. Students read using reading logs that parents sign.DISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGCesar Chavez Elementary School™s discipline practices and behavior management strategies 
comply with California Education Code and  approved board policies and are designed to create effective learning environments and minimize classroom disruptions. Teachers integrate Character 
Counts strategies to promote respect and responsibility through daily instruction and activities. 


based upon the nature of each situation.CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONINSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS

to the California State Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected from the state™s most recent list of standards-based materials and adopted by the State Board of Education.  


students, including English Learners. The Board of Trustees adopted Resolution #1028 which 




that are aligned to the academic content standards and consistent with the cycles and content of ˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˛˙˘˝
˜˝
˛˝
˙˛˜˘˝˜
˙˝˘˝
˙˜˘˝
ˇ˝
˜˝
˛˝
˙˝
˙˝˘˝
˙˜˘˝
ˇ˝
˜˝
˙˛˝
˙˙˝
˙˝˘˝
˙˙˜˘˝
˙˙˝˘˝
˙˝˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˝˘



‘’
š
˜•
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
˛˝˜•˚

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ






˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛
ˇ†
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘
ˇ
˜˚˛“˙ˆˇ˘‘˘’˘˘’
˜˚˚š˙ˆˇ˘
’’’‘˘•˘˘‡ˆ˘…ˇ
˘‡ˇ
‡ƒ’ˇ˘⁄‘‡‡
˜˚˚˝˙ˆˇ˘’†˘˘˘‡ˆ
˜˚˚˝˙ˆˇ˘’’’‘˘•˘˘›ˇ˘…
ˇ
‡ˇ
˜˚˚−˙ˆˇ˘’‘•€‘˘†ˇ‰˘„
˚‡ˆ
‡˘‡ˆ
˙˘

„ˇ˘‡ˆˇ
„˘˘„ˇ˘
‚˘ƒ˘‰
ˇˇƒˆ™ˇ˘
˘ﬁ˘
’ˇ
ﬂ˘’˘
Ł˘‡ˆ˘

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
Łˇ


the curriculum frameworks in language arts, 
science, mathematics, social studies, and 

were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign 
language or health classes.STAFF
 DEVELOPMENT
efforts with school site administration to 
provide training and curriculum development which revolves around the California State 
Standards. Teachers align classroom 
curriculum to ensure that all students either 
Grade levels participate in Professional 

month on early release Wednesdays, and one 
Wednesday per month is used for professional 

Cesar Chavez provided professional 
development based upon student achievement 
levels and teacher needs as well as follow-up 
training on districtwide programs which 
included: Common Core State StandardsResponse to Intervention
Standards-Focused InstructionMastery of StandardsEssential Standards Mapping
school years professional development activities covered topics contained in the charts 
located in this report entitled ﬁProfessional 
Teachers are encouraged to attend 
professional training programs offered by the 

local agencies for specialized training in their instructional areas and curriculum. Teachers that are new to the profession as well 
as the district receive intensive support and 
Education™s New Teacher Induction Program 


teachers and new teachers recruited from out-of-state, the New Teacher Induction Program 
provides support and skill-building assistance 
through formative assessment and individualized support. After successful 
completion of the two-year program, teachers may apply for their clear teaching credential.SCHOOL LEADERSHIPCesar Chavez Elementary™s principal works 
closely with school staff, the Leadership Teams, 
and parents to ensure school programs are in alignment with student achievement goals and the schoolwide objectives. Principal Sarah Amezcua works closely with the 
School Leadership Teams and all school staff. 
Weekly meetings and collaboration enable a 
strong focus on instructional strategies at Chavez Elementary.
The school™s Leadership Teams are comprised 
of the principal, assistant principal, academic 
coach, RtI teacher, intervention/ELL teacher, 
and grade level leader representatives. The 
Leadership Teams meet periodically to identify 
and develop staff development programs for 
teaching staff in an effort to improve student 
achievement. Cesar Chavez Elementary™s School Site 

and is comprised of the principal, teachers, 
SSC takes an advisory role in evaluating school 
programs and progress in meeting school 
goals. Teaching staff work closely in professional 
learning communities to improve student achievement, analyze data, and to set goals.  
Grade level teams meet every week  and follow 
an agenda prepared by the principal. Topics of 
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˘˘˘
˘˘˙˘˘
˘˘˙˘˘˘†˙ˆ“
˘˘˙˘˘‘˙ˇ“
˘˘˙˘’š•˘
˘˘˙˘€˘
˘‘˙ˇ“
˘˘˙˘—˘ƒƒ
˘‘˙ˇ“
˘˘˙˘’˘€˘‘˙ˇ“
˘˘˙˘⁄€˘‘˙ˇ“
˘˘˙˘ƒ€˘‘˙ˇ“
˘˘˙˘˘˘‘˙ˇ“
˘˘˙˘‹‹
˘˘˙˘’⁄˘‘˙ˇ“
˘˘˙˘˘‹˘†˙ˆ“
˘˘˙˘−˘˘˘‘˙ˇ“
˘˘˙˘˘⁄˘
˘˘˙’⁄›
˘˘˙˘‰‡‡˘‘˙ˇ“
˘˘˙˘€˙˘†˙ˆ“
˘˘˙˘”‘“
˘˘˙˘−‚˘†˙ˆ“
˘˘˙˘—˘˘˘†˙ˆ“
˘˘˙˘€‹˘‰ﬁ˘⁄
˘˘˙˘—˘‹
˘˘˙˘˘‡˘—
˘˘˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˛˘˛˙˘˛ˇ
˘’šﬂ⁄˘
˘˘˙˘Ł‰
˘˘˙˘ƒ˘
˘˘˙˘⁄
˘˘˙˘⁄ƒ”—˘†Œ˚
˘˘˙˘˘
˘˘˙˘”‰’š‰
˘˘˙˘⁄˘’−
˘˘˘˘€˘
˘˘˙˘˘’š‰˘ƒ
˘˘˙˘’š
˘˘˙
˘˘˙˘’š
˘˘˙˘’”€
˘˘˙˘Š˘˘†˙ˆ“
˘ƒ˘’
˘˘˙˘⁄
˘˘˙˙˘‰
˘˘˙˘˘
˘˘˙˘ƒ›˘−˘Ž•
˘˘˙˘ƒ˘’Ÿ˘‹Ž
˘˘˙˘˘Š
˘˘˙˘˘€˘−
˘˘˙˘ı‹
˘˘˙˘‹
˘˘˙˘˘ƒ˘€

˘˘˙˘€‡”˘Ł˘ﬁ˘ˇ˘−
˘˘˙˘‰
˘˘˙
˘˘˙˘Ž
˘˘˙˘⁄
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˘˘˘
˘˘˙
˘˘˙˘†“˘‘’˘š˙€˘˘•˙˝‡
˘˘˙˘…—–˘‘’ƒ‡
˘˘˙˘–˘‘’ƒ‡
˘˘˙˘–˘‘’˘•˙˝‡
˘˘˙
˘˘˙†“
˘˘˙
˘˘˙˘›†“˘—
˘˘˙˘‘„–
†††“‡
˘˘˙˘…⁄‹˘„
˘˘˙˘”
˘˘˙˘˘˘‘˘˘
†“‡
˘˘˙˘‹˘‹˘˘‘’˘•˙˝‡
˘˘˙˘‚˘‘’˘•˙˝‡
˘˘˙˘™˘‹˘
˘˘˙˘™˘˘‹
˘˘˙˘‚⁄“˘‘’˘•˙˝‡
˘˘˙˘˘‘’˘˜˙ﬂ‡
˘˘˙˘”—
˘˘˙˘‹˘
˘˘˙˘™˘
˘˘˙‹⁄Œ„
˘„˘
˘˘˙˘˘
˘˘˙˘„˘›
˘‹˘
˘˘˙
˘˘˙
˘˘˙˘ŠŸ˘Ÿ
˘˘˙˘ŠŸ
˘˘˙Ÿ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˛˘˛˙˘˛ˇ

discussion are focused on academic progress, 
intervention strategies, and instructional needs.Cesar Chavez Elementary School has an Academic Coach, Intervention Teacher, and 
one Common Core Lead available per grade level in English Language Arts and 
mathematics. The Common Core Lead works 
with the district and the teachers to train all staff on the Common Core Curriculum.
SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTION
Chavez Elementary believe in early 

performing students prior to testing for learning 
disabilities - ensuring every student receives the instruction and skills necessary to 


general education classroom and receive instruction based upon their learning level, 
individual education plan, or Student Study Team guidelines. Instructional programs are 
aligned with state and district standards, and 
teachers use a variety of instructional 

materials and programs to deliver classroom 
lessons.Intervention Teacher: Provides at-risk 
intervention tutoring primarily for English learners but is available to all at-risk 
students.
The ASES Program funds the 
establishment of local after school education and enrichment programs. These programs are created through partnerships between schools and local community resources to provide literacy, 
academic enrichment and safe 
constructive alternatives for students in 



provide eligibility to all elementary and 
applications throughout California. 



imbedded in core curriculum throughout the day. Additionally, we offer enrichment 

opportunities in partnership with The Arts 
Council for Monterey County and 
Missoula Community Theatre Program.
PROFESSIONAL STAFF
COUNSELING & SUPPORT SERVI
CES STAFF
It is the goal of Cesar Chavez Elementary to 
assist students in their social and personal 

and prescriptive teachings, the resource 
specialist program, counseling by teachers 
and other staff members, and involvement 
SPECIAL EDUCATION
 Special education students are mainstreamed in the general education environment. One 

instruction in the resource room. Special education staff work closely with classroom 
teachers to provide instruction either on 
regularly-assigned class work or focused instruction in designated areas. Individualized 


environment. Each student™s parents and school 
staff meet annually to evaluate student 
performance and adjust the child™s IEP to meet 
the student™s academic needs. 

the multi-district Monterey County Special 
collaborates with school districts and other public and private agencies in the county to 
provide a full complement of special education services for Cesar Chavez Elementary™s 
students. Through the SELPA, special education 
support professional, students, and parents 
ENGLISH LANGUAGE LEARNERS


survey. Students are placed in a classroom with 
a teacher who has been trained to teach second 
language skills to elementary students. English 

as a supplement to their regular language arts 



TARGETED INTERVENTION
 PROGRAMSThrough data analysis, teachers will determine targeted intervention groups to provide every 
child with the additional time and support 
needed to learn at high levels. Our Response to 


where teachers work together in teams in collaboration to provide timely, targeted, 
systematic interventions to ass students who demonstrate the need.Teachers use various tools such as state 

assessments, and common formative 
their level of need. Teachers are guided through 
the RtI pyramid of instruction as a visual 
representation of a system of interventions to base their targeted groups. This will allow 
teachers the opportunity to deploy students to 
support if needed. Lessons and instruction is 
also tailored throughout the day using differentiated researched based strategies and 
practices.˜˚˛˝˙˜˚
ˆˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ
ˇˇ˘†
‘’‘’ˇ
˘

ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ‘€ˇ
˘
ˇˇˇ•
ˇš‡…
ˇš‡
ˇš—…ˇ
ˇš•
ˇ–ˇš
ˇš
ˇƒˇ‹
ˇ€
ˇˇ−
ˇ•
ˇ„ˇ
ˇ“ˇ‚
ˇ“†ˇ€†ˇˇ
’’’
ˇ“’‘ˇ
ˇ“’™ˇﬁ
ˇﬂ’ˇ€†
ˇ
ˇˇˇ“ˇ
ˇˇš˘ˇ
“Ł•
ˇˇ
Š˙’
ˇﬁˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝



˜
ˇ
ˆ“
ˆˇ

ˇ˝

˝’
š
“ˇ

€˘ˇ˝˜
˝

†˝ˆˇ˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
˝˜
˝˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛
‡˜˝˚˙˝ˆˇ˝˝
˝

˝
Cesar Chavez Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
of outside agencies when necessary are available and utilized for Cesar Chavez Elementary students who need this type of assistance. Parents are involved in all of these processes and 
teaching support staff assigned to Cesar Chavez Elementary. The district nurse is available on 
an as-needed basis and  coordinates mandatory health screenings. The school counselor offers 
small group counseling to help students with family or school related issues. TEACHER ASSIGNMENT





who lack legal authorization to teach that grade level, subject area, student group, etc. DISTRICT EXPENDITURESSALARY
 & BUDGET COMPARISON
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State 

salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state.EXPENDITURES PER STUDENT

total general funds to educate each student 





compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district 



˜˚˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
ˆ˙
˘˛
‘’š€˘˛
‡˙˘˘˛††“
…˘˛–
ƒ˘˛
‘ˇ˘˛

˛˘˛
…˘˘‹–
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛“
“˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚








































In addition to general fund state funding, 
and federal categorical funding for special 
district received federal, state, and local aid for 
the following categorical, special education, 
and support programs:





SARC DATA
 & INTERNET ACCESSDATA
QUEST

additional information about Cesar Chavez Elementary School and comparisons of the school to the district, the county, and the state.  

accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 


statistics.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATION
Parents may access Cesar Chavez Elementary™s SARC and access the Internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries. The closest 
library to Cesar Chavez Elementary is 




            Friday & Saturday: 11-5
            Sunday & Monday: ClosedDISCLOSUREThe statistical information disclosed in this 

-

report met all SARC-related state and federal 

available. Instructional materials information 

November 2019. 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆ˝
˘
ˆ˜ˆˆ˜˜ˆ˜˜˝
˘
˚
˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˘˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˘–
˜˜ˇ˝˜
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
‹›−
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
