May Ranch Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
HONORS2011-12 Title I Academic Achievement Award
2012 California Business for Education Excellence2017 California Distinguished School2019 PBIS Silver Coalition Award
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to May Ranch 
Elementary School, home 
of the Wranglers! At May 
Ranch, our vision is for all 
students to be empowered 
and equipped with the 
knowledge and strategies necessary to become 
confident and successful global citizens. Our staff 
is committed to providing rigorous and innovative 
learning opportunities and support for all students. 
Our instructional goals are focused on the 
California State Standards and in alignment with 
district goals and grade level expectations. We take 
pride in creating a school culture that is dedicated 
to promoting and supporting positive behaviors and 
character traits and emphasizes being respectful, 
responsible and safe. Supplemental programs and 
support are in place through MTSS which includes 
Response to Intervention and PBIS. Teachers 
and grade level teams collaborate on instructional 
planning as well as analyzing data to guide 
instruction and meet the needs of all students. 
As the 2019-20 year unfolds, we look forward to 
providing an academic environment that prepares 
students to be global citizens in the 21st century. 
DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in 
the heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 72 miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the district 
and its communities are March Air Force Base 
and the Lake Perris recreational area.  During 
the 2018-19 school year, the district™s schools 
served more than 20,200 students residing in the rural and suburban communities of Perris, Moreno Valley, and portions of unincorporated 
Riverside County.  The district currently operates 
a preschool, 12 elementary schools, 4 middle schools, 3 comprehensive high schools, a student success academy, a virtual academy, and a 
continuation high school. During the 2018-19 school year, May Ranch 
Elementary School served 940 students in grades K-5. Student enrollment included 8.5% receiving special education services, 23.6% qualifying for English learner support, and 80.3% qualifying for free or reduced-price meals. MAY RANCH ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
900 East Morgan Street, Perris, CA  92571
Phone: (951) 490-4670  Ł  Fax: (951) 490-4675Aimee Breton, PrincipalE-mail: abreton@valverde.edu˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘
˘


˘š
€

˘“
˘’
ˇˇ
‡˚˙

—ˇ–˙ˇƒ
˜⁄ˇ
‹

…ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ—˚…ˇ
−˙



€˚ˇ‰…

„“†˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙


ˇ™ˇ
”

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
May Ranch Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, school districts are required to develop, adopt, and annually update a three-year Local 
Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP). The 
following components of this SARC address some of the priorities identified in the District™s 
LCAP:Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are 
appropriately assigned and fully credentialed in the subject areas and for the pupils they are 
teaching; pupils have access to standards-aligned Instructional materials and school 
facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks 
chart; and School Facilities & Maintenance, 
including the Campus Description and School Facility Good Repair Status charts.Conditions of Learning (Implementation of State Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  Implementation of 
academic content and performance standards adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts 
to seek parent input in decision making, 
promotion of parent participation in programs for unduplicated pupils and special need subgroups.  
Covered in Parent Involvement.Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score on Academic Performance Index, share of pupils 
that are college and career ready, share of 
English learners that become English proficient, 
English learner reclassification rate, share of pupils that pass Advanced Placement exams 
with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils determined 
prepared for college by the Early Assessment 
Program.  Covered in California Assessment of 
Student Performance and Progress, including the CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic 
absenteeism rates, middle school dropout rates, high school dropout rates, and high school 
graduation rates.   Covered in Dropout Rates, including the Dropout chart; and Graduation Rates, including the Graduation Rate chart for 
high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil 
suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, and parents and teachers on the sense of safety and school connectedness.  Covered in Discipline 
& Climate for Learning, including Suspension & Expulsion chart; and School Site Safety Plan.Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course of study that includes all of the subject areas.   Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness 
Test chart
.PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to school 
and student success. May Ranch Elementary School offers a wide variety of opportunities for 
parents to support the school and their child™s 
academic efforts through volunteering efforts or 
simply attending special events and activities.  
Parents seeking more information or who are 
interested in participating in any of the activities 
listed below may contact their child™s teacher or 
anyone in the school office at (951) 490-4670.
Volunteer to Help In:
Ł ClassroomsŁ Chaperone field trips            Ł Office
Ł LibraryJoin Leadership GroupsŁ African American Advisory Council
Ł School Site Council Ł English Learner Advisory Council
Ł GATE Advisory Committee 
   (Gifted & Talented Education)
Ł Parent Advisory Committee
Ł Parent Teacher Organization 
Attend Special Events & Workshops
Ł 21st Century LearningŁ Book FairsŁ Back to School NightŁ Family STEAM NightŁ March of DimesŁ Parent ConferencesŁ Parent Education Classes & Workshops
Ł Parent Engagement DaysŁ Student PerformancesŁ Student Recognition Activities   
School-to-home communication is provided 
in both English and Spanish. Flyers, letters,  
monthly calendars, the school marquee, Parent Link, Facebook (@May Ranch), and Peach Jar (automated telephone messages) are issued as needed for special announcements 
and reminders. The school website (http:www.
mayranch.valverde.edu) and our Twitter page 
(@mayranch) features current news and general information.STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT BENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student learning. District benchmark assessments supplement multiple measures of assessment to identify students™ mastery of content, depth of knowledge, 
and skills. District benchmark assessments are aligned to the California State Standards and are comprised of both formative and summative assessments given in math, reading, and language arts. During the 2018-19 school year, 
all students in grades 1-5 were assessed multiple 
times utilizing a system of short-cycle formative 
assessments to identify content area mastery and 
specific gaps in the learning process.  Students in grades 7-12 were evaluated quarterly throughout the year to determine course grades and levels of content mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used to identify student progress, understanding of state content standards, and mastery of subject area matter/concepts. These measures include: 
state summative assessments, benchmark assessments, grade level/department common assessments, classroom observations, teacher-created assessments, adaptive diagnostic assessments in reading and math, and early 
indicators of reading assessments. Collectively, 
the benchmark assessments and multiple measures aid teachers in 1) identifying areas where instruction may or may not be effective; 
2) guiding classroom instruction practices and strategies; and 3) identifying students who need targeted academic assistance or intervention. Teachers and administrators are able to 
pinpoint any deficiencies or gaps in the learning process, identifying very specific skill sets and 
subject area content that needs to be retaught, reinforced, or revised to ensure every student obtains a solid foundation for future success in learning.CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESSThe California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the 
general education population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students 
with the most significant cognitive disabilities.  
Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are 
aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a 
measure of how well students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/
literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given 
to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the 
Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include 
overall results comparing the school, district and state scores as well as the school™s overall 
score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP 
can be found on the California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
May Ranch Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛
ˇ

†
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘


˝˘ˆ•˘˘ˆ˚šˆ˝˛
……………………………………………………˘
……………………………………………………‘˚


–ˆˆƒ˝˛˘˚


⁄˛


˜›˚ˆˆ−
……………………………………………………˝˙˙‰ˆ„˝˘˛



ˇ‹ˆ


˛ˆ›˛‹ˆ„˛


‘˛ˆ‚‹
……………………………………………………˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˛˙
ˇ˙
ˆˆˆ˘˙˚˘˜ˇˆ˚
˘˘†“‘’

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˚˚˘
††“
˜
SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEMay Ranch Elementary School provides a safe, clean environment for learning through proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Original school buildings were constructed in 2008; ongoing maintenance ensures school facilities are kept safe and in good working condition and continue to provide adequate 
space for students and staff. All classrooms 
feature a HoverCam and projectors; all teachers have been supplied with a laptop. 2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Repairs and replacement to asphaltŁ Addition of a STEAM lab
2019-20 Campus Improvements in Progress:Ł Installation of privacy fencing around the   B-fieldŁ Installation of new carpeting in the libraryPHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, May Ranch 
Elementary School is required by the state to administer a physical fitness test to all students in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test measures 
each student™s ability to complete six fitness tasks 
in six major areas. Students that either meet or exceed the standards in all six fitness areas are considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy 
fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative district and state results can be found at the CDE™s web site www.
cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙

“‘’˙š˛
€š˘˛˝
€’˘˚˙
€˙
€†˚˛‡…˚˝˙—–˙
€˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
May Ranch Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SCHOOL INSPECTIONSMay Ranch Elementary School and the Val 
Verde Unified School District™s Maintenance and 
Operations Department (M&O) work together to 
ensure student safety and uphold high cleaning standards. M&O supervisors and school administration inspect facilities on a continual basis to identify and resolve concerns in a proactive and timely manner. The most recent 
facilities inspection at May Ranch Elementary School took place on July 16, 2019. Schools are required by state law to report the condition of 
their facilities; the School Facility Good Repair Status table illustrated in this report (on page 4) 
identifies the state-required inspec
tion areas and 
discloses the operational status in each of those areas. During fiscal year 2019-20, all restrooms were fully functional and available for student 
use at the time of the inspection.SUPERVISION & SAFETYAs a component of the school™s secure campus 
policy, school facilities are fully enclosed with 
a perimeter fence system. Only students are 
allowed to travel in and out of entrance gates; parents and guardians must enter the campus 
through the school™s main office.
Each morning as students arrive on campus, 
crossing guards, teachers, and supervision aides are strategically stationed at line-up areas to monitor activities and behavior. Students 
receiving breakfast in the multipurpose room or outdoor eating area are chaperoned by supervision aides. During recess and lunch, 
supervision aides are responsible for monitoring 
student behavior and activities in the cafeteria and on the playground. When students are dismissed at the end of the day, teachers 
escort their students to the main exit areas and assigned teachers remain at designated exits to ensure students leave campus in a safe and orderly manner. Crossing guards assist with a 
safe departure as students leave campus.Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain a 
safe and secure environment, all parents and visitors are required to check in at the school office upon arrival, present a valid picture 
identification to be scanned through the Raptor 
System, and obtain and wear a visitor™s badge.
SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for May Ranch Elementary School in collaboration with local agencies and the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 requirements.  
The Val Verde Unified School District partners 
with Hour-Zero for school emergency response planning, management, consulting, and training. 
Hour-Zero  specialists support district and school staff with the ongoing development of 
a comprehensive emergency preparedness program to address critical components of 
emergency response planning and compliance 
with federal and state requirements.Components of May Ranch Elementary™s 
school safety plan include child abuse reporting procedures, teacher notification of dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and departure from school, sexual harassment policy, dress code 
policy, and bully prevention policy. The school™s 
most current safety plan was reviewed by administration and local law enforcement and Each custodian is provided one week of 
intensive training upon employment.  Thereafter, 
training is coordinated by district maintenance supervisors and custodial staff meetings are 
held twice annually. Training activities in use 
of equipment and safety procedures are led 
by district risk management representatives, vendors, and department supervisors. The 
district™s Operations Supervisor visits May Ranch 
Elementary School monthly to review custodial 
performance, discuss campus maintenance 
needs with the principal, evaluate conditions of the school facility, and follow up on outstanding 
work order requests.CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE AND CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGA safe, clean school and an effective learning 
program provide the basis for May Ranch Elementary School™s discipline program. School 
staff support an environment that teaches 
students, through the daily curriculum, the skills to resolve conflicts and take responsibility for 
their decisions. Classroom rules are posted in each classroom.The OLWEUS Bully Prevention Program as 
well as the Positive Behavior Intervention Support System (PBIS) has been implemented.  
The OLWEUS bully prevention program is a 
preventative program which requires active 
participation from all members of our school community.  It is designed for all students and is 
preventative and responsive to any and all acts of bullying.  The Positive Behavior Intervention 
Support System will be integrated with OLWEUS 
bully prevention program.  Through the Positive 
Behavior Intervention Support System, our school community will provide intentional 
structures for student success through positive 
behavior expectations.


updated in January 2020 and discussed with staff 
throughout the year. It is available for review by 
the public in the front office.
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance department work together to ensure playing fields, classrooms, and campus grounds 
are well-maintained and kept safe and functioning for students, staff, and visitors. Maintenance 
and Operations (M&O) continues to employ an electronic work order process to facilitate and improve services to May Ranch Elementary School. Teachers and school staff communicate 
unscheduled maintenance needs, urgent repairs, 
or special projects to designated custodial and office support staff who prepare and submit 
work orders to M&O for resolution. Emergency situations are immediately resolved either by the 
school custodian or district maintenance staff.    
DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time day custodian, one part-time afternoon custodian, and one full-time evening 
custodian  are assigned to May Ranch Elementary School and work closely with the principal for 
routine maintenance, daily custodial duties, and special events. The principal, assistant 
principal, and custodians communicate daily regarding safety issues, cleaning practices, and housekeeping needs. Custodians are responsible for cleaning campus grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and common areas to ensure facilities remain in good working condition, clean, and safe for students, staff, and visitors. The custodians 
are required to inspect restrooms a minimum of two times a day and subsequently document restroom inspections in their daily inspection log. All custodians follow approved district standards 
and procedures for routine custodial functions and campus maintenance. Groundskeepers are on campus once a week and are responsible for general gardening and maintenance work such as trash and debris removal, landscaping care, 
irrigation system maintenance, and playing field maintenance. May Ranch Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł Professional Learning Communities (PLC)Ł Response to Intervention Ł STEAM EducationŁ Use of Instructional Technology
Certificated staff serving both general education 
and special education programs devoted 
additional time to the continued implementation 
of the Collaborative Coaching and Learning  
model. Teams of teachers met with the 
instructional coach in response to data analysis findings to explore and expand grade level strategies to improve student learning. During the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 school years, Val Verde Unified School District 
provided professional development on the 
following topics: During the 2019-20 school year, teachers also 
had the opportunity to participate in the following 
professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes 
new teachers and provides intensive training to help them experience success in their new classrooms. For ongoing professional guidance, the district supports new and veteran teachers in developing their teaching skills. California May Ranch Elementary School implements the Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) 
curriculum to develop social skills and expectations. There are four schoolwide expectations for 
students to follow: 1) Be Respectful, 2) Be Responsible, 3) Be Safe, and 4) Be Present. At the beginning of the school year, school rules, district policies, and academic expectations are 1) 
outlined in the Student Handbook (in both English and Spanish) and 2) shared by teachers as part of 
their classroom orientation process. At the beginning of the school year and again after winter recess, 
students are reminded in classroom discussions and at assemblies to conduct themselves in a safe, 
responsible, and courteous manner. The principal and/or  assistant principal visits with students on an 
as-needed basis to discuss the importance of good behavior, address current trends in inappropriate 
behavior, explore bully prevention topics, and reinforce school rules.
Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the classroom when students are disruptive or demonstrating poor citizenship. When students continue having difficulty following school rules, 
teachers may temporarily place the student in another classroom. If poor behavior continues, the  
student is referred to the school principal for further intervention. Education Management Teams 
comprised of certificated staff collaborate when necessary to identify and develop strategies to resolve 
behavior-related concerns interfering with the learning process. Consequences and disciplinary action are based upon the student™s past behavior trend and the severity of the infraction. Discipline 
measures are consistently applied in a fair and firm manner. 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

†ˇ“
‘’
CLASS SIZE The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-
32 students, and 33 or more students.ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESStudents are encouraged to participate in 
the school™s many academic enrichment and 
extracurricular activities. These activities 
promote the development of interests and skills outside the standard curriculum. Students are encouraged to participate in the 100 Mile Running Club, Associated Student Body (ASB), 
after school clubs and intervention, 5th grade band and choir, STEAM enrichment classes, and 
THINK Together. After-school enrichment classes 
are available to identified GATE (Gifted and 
Talented Education) students.
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement activities at Val Verde Unified School District 
are aligned to the California State Standards. The district™s Educational Services Department 
selects staff development concentrations based 
on principal feedback, teacher survey results, California State Standards, district benchmark assessment results, and state standardized test results. During the 2018-19 school year, May Ranch 
Elementary School held staff development 
focused on:Ł 21st Century LearningŁ College & Career ReadinessŁ AVID
Ł Curriculum Based Training 
Ł InquiryŁ Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS)Ł Positive Behavioral Intervention & Support (PBIS)˜˚˛˝
˛˜˚˙˛
˙˙ˆˇ˝˜˛
˜˝
˘˛˝˜
˙˝˛
˝
˘˘˝˛˘
ˇ˝
˜˝
˘˛˝
˘˙˝˜
˝˜
˘˝˛˘
˝˜
ˇ˝
˜˝
˘˛˝
˘˙˝
˘˝
˘˘˝˛˘
˝˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

†

‘’
€



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
May Ranch Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Val Verde Unified School District 
are aligned to the California State Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected 
from the state™s most recent list of standards-
based materials and adopted by the State Board 
of Education. Instructional materials for grades 9-12 are standard
s-based and approved by the 
district™s Board of Education.  
On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified 
School District™s Board of Education held a 
public hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Board of Education 
adopted Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies as required by Education Code §60119 1) that 
textbooks and instructional materials were provided to all students, including English learners, in the district to the extent that each pupil has a standards-aligned textbook or instructional 
materials, or both, to use in class and to take home, 2) sufficient textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to each student, including English learners, that are aligned to the academic content standards and are consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks in mathematics, science, history-social science, and English/language arts, including the English language development component of an adopted program, 3) sufficient textbooks or instructional 
materials were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign language or health classes, and 4) sufficient laboratory science equipment was 
available for science laboratory classes offered 
in grades 9-12 inclusive. Within a six-week period prior to adoption, parents may preview recommended instructional materials at the district office or the school™s office.
In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for 
its visual/performing arts curricula.  During the 2019-20 school year, Val Verde Unified School 
District certifies that each student, including English learners, enrolled in a visual/performing arts class has been provided with a textbook or supplemental materials to use in class and to take home. These materials comply with the California 
State Standards.Teacher Induction (CTID) program, a state-
sponsored program, is designed for first- and second-year credentialed teachers and provides 
skills assistance over a two-year period. The Peer 
Assistance and Review program is designed to improve the education of students and increase 
the classroom performance of teachers, targeting both new and veteran teachers. Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and support 
staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the district and Riverside County 
Office of Education. Professional and subject-
specific offerings are consistent with the 
California State Standards. Special education staff, resource specialist staff, 
bilingual aides, and instructional aides receive 
customized training to support the district™s 
educational programs and develop strategies to increase effectiveness in teaching practices. 
Classified support staff receive job-related 
training from department supervisors and district 
representatives; training activities and workshops are designed to enhance and extend job performance. Long-term substitute teachers may be encouraged to participate in site-sponsored activities to enhance their understanding of Val 
Verde Unified School District™s curriculum and 
classroom management practices.SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at May Ranch Elementary School is a responsibility shared among the principal, 
assistant principal, teachers, and parents. 
Principal Aimee Breton is responsible for the day-
to-day operations and overall curriculum. The 
assistant principal, Tre Adams, helps oversee 
student safety and the implementation of PBIS. 
The school™s leadership team, instructional 
coach, grade level teams, English Learners 
Advisory Council, African American Advisory 
Council, Parent Teacher Organization, and 
School Site Council share in the decision-making and administrative processes to create an effective, safe, and nurturing learning 
environment.The school™s leadership team, comprised of the 
principal, assistant principal, grade level leaders, special education teachers, and the instructional coach work together to review and offer input 
towards improving school programs. Team 
members are responsible for providing oversight and supervision as requested for special programs or activities, supporting the principal in program implementation, and  serving as a 
liaison to their respective grade level teams.The School Site Council (SSC), consisting of the principal, community members, teachers, and classified staff, is a major governing body 
that meets monthly to address school programs, 
discuss progress in meeting school goals, and 
serve as a liaison between the community and school administration. On an annual basis, the SSC is responsible for reviewing and approving the school site plan, safety plan, and budget.SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the California State Standards and approved by the State Board of Education. Every child receives a rigorous, California Common Core State Standards aligned program. May Ranch 
Elementary School structures its educational 
program so that all students receive instruction appropriate to their learning level. To ensure the 
success of every student, teachers use a variety of instructional techniques using research-based instructional materials and strategies.SPECIAL EDUCATIONSpecial education students are mainstreamed into the general education classroom based upon their IEP (Individual Education Plan) 
and provided instruction in the least restrictive environment. Special education teachers, special education aides, and general education teachers collaboratively utilize a team-oriented approach 
to provide maximum levels of instruction in the general education environment. For a portion of the regular school day, students may receive 
individual and/or small group instruction from special education staff in the Learning Center. 
A District Program Specialist meets with 
special education teachers regularly to provide support and assistance in developing student instructional schedules and allocating staff 
resources. The instructional coach is available to 
provide training and support to special education 
staff. 
Each student is provided instruction based 
upon their IEP, which is reviewed and updated 
annually by the school™s IEP teams. The IEP 
ensures that students with disabilities have 
equal access to core curriculum and educational 
opportunities and is used to coordinate specially-designed instruction based upon individual academic, social, and behavioral needs.  ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of May Ranch Elementary™s teachers are 
certified and trained to provide instruction for students identified as English Learners (EL). EL students receive designated English 
Language Development (ELD) instruction by their teacher for 30 minutes a day as a supplement to their regular language arts curriculum. ELD Instruction focuses on reading development, verbal language development, and vocabulary building. As students increase 
fluency in the English language, May Ranch 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚ˆ˘ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘
˙ˇˇ˚˛ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙ˇ˚ˆ˙
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘˘˘

“ˆ
“˘“ˆ
˙˘
‘ˆ’
ˇ˘“ˆˇ
˘˘ˇ˘
‡˘˘…
‘ˇˇˆ—ˇ˘
˘ƒ˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘⁄˘˘
›˘“ˆ˘
‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‰ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ
May Ranch Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Elementary School continues to monitor student performance through ELPAC results, benchmark 
assessments, and classroom observation to adjust instruction as needed to ensure continued 
success in acquiring the English language and proficiency in reading/language arts.  GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONMay Ranch Elementary School offers a Gifted 
and Talented Education program for students 
who have been recognized as high achievers by 
their teachers and through district testing. GATE 
students are grouped by grade level to receive accelerated, differentiated instruction that offers 
more depth and complexity throughout the curriculum by GATE-trained teachers.  
AVIDMay Ranch Elementary School is an AVID 
elementary school.  AVID Elementary is a 
foundational component of the AVID College 
Readiness System and supports AVID™s 
mission to close the achievement gap by 
preparing all students for college readiness 
and success in a global society.  Based on the 
same learning foundation that underlies AVID 
Secondary, AVID Elementary is designed to 
be embedded into the daily instruction of all 
elementary classrooms across entire grade 
levels to maintain school wide structures.  AVID 
Elementary™s implementation of resources, 
trainings, and philosophy are all grounded in 
the idea that growth mindset can be taught to students.  It is through the growth mindset that AVID students succeed in following their dreams 
and fulfilling their aspirations.  AVID Elementary 
takes a systemic approach through the use 
of WICOR (Writing, Inquiry, Collaboration, 
Organization, Reading) and an explicit focus on high expectations, rigor, and developing a 
college readiness culture.INTERVENTION PROGRAMSMay Ranch Elementary School supports intervention programs to meet the needs of 
those students not meeting state proficiency 
standards in reading, language arts, and math. 
Education Management Teams comprised of 
school administrators, teachers, and parents work together to identify individualized intervention strategies for and monitor progress of students having difficulty with academic or 
social development. Ł THINK Together: voluntary after-school 
program provided five days a week. Students are engaged in a highly structured program that 
provides standards-based homework assistance, 
tutoring, and sports. The program is offered daily 
after school until 6:00 p.m.Ł Response to Intervention (RtI): general education intervention through specialized academic instruction that has designated access 
time to target students during school hours.Ł Impact Substitute Teachers: substitute teachers 
in the morning and in the afternoon provide support to regular classroom teachers who conduct small group intervention in reading and math.Ł Students are given structured time during 
school hours to complete work.PROFESSIONAL STAFFTEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, May Ranch Elementary School had 35 teachers who met all credential 
requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number of teachers at 
both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching outside 
subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number of positions filled by 
teachers who lack legal authorization to teach that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.SUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, 
nurses, health technicians, and special education service providers. Through close collaboration, 
this expert team is instrumental in improving student attendance and achievement through the 
identification, referral, and remediation of health 
and/or emotional concerns. The psychologist assists with academic, social, and emotional issues; provides assessments to determine eligibility for Special Education 
services; and facilitates coordination of Individual Education Plans (IEP).  The school 
nurse conducts health screening programs. 
Health technicians provide basic aid. As a 
participating member of the Riverside County Special Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), 
Val Verde Unified School District and May 
Ranch Elementary School have access to a full complement of professional resources and services to meet the individual needs of its students with disabilities. ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˘
˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
˜˜˜ˆ˝˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘–
ˇˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
ƒ
––‹
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˝ˆˇ
˝
ˇ

˜

ˇ
“
ˆ˘ˇˇ
‘
’˝ˇ
˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙˝
˙
ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙˙

˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
May Ranch Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATAQUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about May Ranch Elementary School and comparisons of the school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access May Ranch Elementary School™s SARC and access the internet at any of 
the county™s public libraries. The closest libraries 
to May Ranch Elementary School are:Moreno Valley Public Library - (951) 413-3880
Hours: Monday-Thursday 9-8            Friday 9-6            Saturday 9-5            Sunday 12-5Number of computers available:   15 adult computers   10 children™s computers
Number of printers available: 1Perris Branch Public Library - (951) 657-2358Hours: Sunday 1-5            Monday 10 -6            Tuesday-Wednesday 12-8
            Thursday-Saturday 10-6
Number of computers available: 17Number of printers available: 1DISTRICT EXPENDIT
URESSALARY AND BUDGET COMPARI
SONState law requires comparative salary and budget information to be reported to the general public. 
For comparison purposes, the State Department of Education has provided average salary data from school districts having similar average daily attendance throughout the state.EXPENDIT
URES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Verde Unified 
School District spent an average of $11,189 
of total general funds to educate each student 
(based on 2017-18 audited financial statements and in accordance with calculations defined in 
Education Code §41372). The table in this report 
1) compares the school™s per pupil expenditures 
from unrestricted (basic) and restricted 
(supplemental) sources with other schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE web site at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/
fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, 
excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, 
state, and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing Option
Ł Ongoing & Major Maintenance Account
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education









˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ†
“˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
“˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
‘’šš€




˘ˇ˘‡˝˙˘…
‘—‘



˘ˇ˘‡–ˇ…
ƒ’⁄—‘
‘’ƒ⁄š
‹⁄›
⁄’‘−⁄
⁄‰›
“
„‰’‹⁄„‹š’‹‰‰€€−›‹‰’−š€€−‰›
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
