Victoriano Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2018-19 school year, Victoriano 
Elementary School served 844 students in grades K-5. Student enrollment included 
 7.8% receiving special education services, 13.5% 
qualifying for English learner support, and 72.4% qualifying for free or reduced-price meals. Victoriano Elementary is a district STEAM 
(Science, Technology, E
ngineering, Art, and 
Math) K-5 school. Teachers employ a rigorous 
and diverse curriculum to create a pathway of 
STEAM learning experiences that will continue 
into a student™s higher education and foster a 
passion for science and mathematics, therefore 
increasing the number of high school graduates 
who have an interest and the expertise in STEAM subjects.A cutting-edge STEAM curriculum, state-of-
the-art science and technology resources, and individualized teaching techniques nurture 
the critical thinking and collaborative problem-solving skills students need to become future 
leaders and innovators in the STEAM fields. Students in kindergarten through fifth currently benefit from a 1:1 technology ratio. All classroom 
teachers use devices that allow them to interact 
with grade level standards on the classroom 
projection screen. Teachers and students engage 
in learning which takes advantage of technology 
to foster communication, critical thinking collaboratively and creativity.
MISSIONIt is our mission to collaboratively create a positive atmosphere in which all students will gain the skills to be Considerate, Honets, 
Innovative, Eager, Focused, and Safe in their 
academic, personal, and professional lives. PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWe would like to welcome you 
to Victoriano Elementary where 
our goal is to create a dynamic learning experience that will cultivate a strong sense of character, allow our 
children to discover new perspectives, and inspire them to become informed global citizens.   We 
are thankful to have a group of dedicated staff 
members, supportive parents, and amazing students who work tirelessly to achieve high 
levels of academic achievement each year. We 
believe that success is earned through hard work and dedication to continued improvement and innovation.The Victoriano experience includes the finest 
educational programs, built on the California Common Core State Standards. Our students take 
an active role in their education, setting challenging goals and striving to achieve their personal best. 
Staff members work collaboratively to guide each 
child through a rigorous curriculum built on a foundation of high expectations and a love for learning.Successful school programs require a strong home-school connection and we value the 
extraordinary partnership we maintain with our families and greater learning community. We know 
that parental involvement in a child™s education 
from an early age has a significant impact on 
educational achievement. As a result of our 
combined efforts, our students continue to shine 
and look forward to a future of limitless possibilities.DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in the 
heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 72 miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the district and 
its communities are March Air Force Base and the 
Lake Perris recreational area.  During the 2018-19 
school year, the district™s schools served more than 
20,200 students residing in the rural and suburban communities of Perris, Moreno Valley, and portions 
of unincorporated Riverside County. The district 
currently operates a preschool, 12 elementary 
schools, 4 middle schools, 3 comprehensive high 
schools, a student success academy, a virtual 
academy, and a continuation high school.     
VICTORIANO ELEMENTARY
 SCHOOL25650 Los Cabos Drive, Moreno Valley, CA 92551
Phone: (951) 490-0390 FAX: (951) 490-0395
Tammy Roughton, Principal
Email: troughton@valverde.eduAN ANNUAL REPORT TO THE COMM
UNITY2018-19 SCHOOL ACTIVITY PUBLISHED IN JANUARY 2020˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘““‘‘
˘“’š


˘‘
€

˘’
˘š
•ˇˇ
‡˚˙

—ˇ–˙ˇƒ
˜⁄ˇ
‹

…ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ—˚…ˇ
−˙

•

€˚ˇ„…

‰’’˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
ˇ
”ˇ
‚˙

•ˇ™ˇ
”

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
Victoriano Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
VISIONTo provide every student with the knowledge and 
skills necessary to be prepared for college and a 
21st century workforce. HONORS2009 California Distinguished School2010 Title I Academic Achievement School
2011 Golden Bell Award
2013 California Business for Education &   Excellence Honor Roll2014 & 2016 Riverside County of Model   Academic Excellence and Innovation Award 
Excellence Honor Roll - Star SchoolSTEM Model School2015 P21 Exemplar School2018 Business Honor Roll2019 PBIS Coalition Award - Silver
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, 
school districts are required to develop, adopt, and annually update a three-year Local Control 
and Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 
components of this SARC address some of the priorities identified in the District™s LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are appropriately assigned and fully credentialed in the subject areas and for the pupils they are teaching; pupils have access to standards-aligned 
Instructional materials and school facilities are maintained in good repair.  Covered in Teacher 
Assignment, including the Teacher Credentials 
& Misassignments chart; Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks chart; and School 
Facilities & Maintenance, including the Campus 
Description and School Facility Good Repair 
Status charts.Conditions of Learning (Implementation of State Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  Implementation of academic content and performance standards adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not covered in the School Accountability Report Card.
Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts to 
seek parent input in decision making, promotion of 
parent participation in programs for unduplicated pupils and special need subgroups.  Covered in Parent Involvement.Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score on Academic Performance Index, share of pupils that are college and career ready, share of 
English learners that become English proficient, English learner reclassification rate, share of 
pupils that pass Advanced Placement exams 
with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils determined 
prepared for college by the Early Assessment 
Program.  Covered in California Assessment of 
Student Performance and Progress, including the 
CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic absenteeism rates, middle school dropout rates, high school dropout rates, and high school graduation rates.   
Covered in Dropout Rates, including the Dropout 
chart; and Graduation Rates, including the Graduation Rate chart for high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other local measures 
including surveys of pupils, and parents and teachers on the sense of safety and school connectedness.  Covered in Discipline & Climate 
for Learning, including Suspension & Expulsion chart; and School Site Safety Plan.Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course of 
study that includes all of the subject areas.   Not covered in the School Accountability Report Card.
Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness Test chart.
PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to school and student success.  Victoriano Elementary 
School offers a wide variety of opportunities for 
parents to support the school and their child™s 
academic efforts through volunteering or simply 
attending special events and activities. Parents 
seeking more information or who are interested in participating in any of the activities listed below may call their child™s teacher at (951) 490-0390.
Volunteer to help in the:
Ł Classrooms  Ł LibraryŁ Office
Join Leadership Groups:Ł African American Advisory Council (AAAC)
Ł District Advisory Council (Title I) (DAC)
Ł English Learner Advisory Council (ELAC)
Ł GATE Advisory Council (Gifted & Talented
    Education)Ł Parent Advisory Committee
Ł Parent Teacher Organization (PTO)
Ł School Site Council (SSC)School Activities & Events:
Ł Back to School NightŁ Book FairŁ Donuts with DadŁ Family AVID Night
Ł Family Literacy EventsŁ GATE Musical
Ł Harvest FestivalŁ Lunch with a Loved OneŁ Muffins with Mom
Ł PTO-sponsored events
Ł Red Ribbon Week
Ł STEM FairŁ Spelling Bee
Ł Student performancesŁ Student recognition assembliesSchool-to-home communication is provided in both English and Spanish. PTO newsletters are 
published throughout the year to keep parents up 
to date on school activities, meeting dates, and fundraisers. Blackboard Connect, an automated telephone message (multilingual) system, is used 
to quickly forward important announcements to each student™s home. A monthly calendar detailing 
school activities is sent home with students. The 
school‚s electronic marquee located in the front 
of the school is kept up to date with important 
reminders and announcements. The school website 
or the new Val Verde App is the best resource for 
information about our school where you can to gain access to newsletters, parent forms, PTO news, 
program information, schedules, and current news on classroom instruction and activities.  The school 
website can be found through the district website at www.valverde.edu.
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT BENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student learning. District benchmark assessments supplement multiple measures of assessment to identify students™ mastery of content, depth of knowledge, 
and skills. District benchmark assessments are aligned to the California State Standards and are comprised of both formative and summative assessments given in math, reading, and language arts. During the 2018-19 school year, 
all students in grades 1-5 were assessed multiple 
times utilizing a system of short-cycle formative assessments to identify content area mastery and 
specific gaps in the learning process.  Students in grades 7-12 were evaluated quarterly throughout 
the year to determine course grades and levels of content mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used to identify student progress, understanding of state content standards, and mastery of subject area matter/concepts. These measures include: 
state summative assessments, benchmark assessments, grade level/department common assessments, classroom observations, teacher-
created assessments, adaptive diagnostic assessments in reading and math, and early indicators of reading assessments. Collectively, 
the benchmark assessments and multiple measures aid teachers in 1) identifying areas where instruction may or may not be effective; 
2) guiding classroom instruction practices and strategies; and 3) identifying students who need targeted academic assistance or intervention. Teachers and administrators are able to pinpoint 
any deficiencies or gaps in the learning process, 
identifying very specific skill sets and subject area content that needs to be retaught, reinforced, or revised to ensure every student obtains a solid foundation for future success in learning.CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESSThe California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general 
education population, and the California Alternate 
Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most 
significant cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration 
of the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the Common Core State Standards 
(CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of 
how well students are mastering California™s 
standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to grades three 
through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). Victoriano Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
ˇ˘


˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘


˘


‘•˚


‡ˆˆ…˝˛


—˛


˜ƒ˚ˆˆ⁄


˝˙˙‹ˆ›˝˘˛



ˇ–ˆ


˛ˆƒ˛–ˆ›˛


‘˛ˆ„–
””””””””””””””””””””˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
ˆˇ˝˚˘ˆ
††“
˜

The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown only 
for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the California 
Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, Victoriano 
Elementary School is required by the state to 
administer a physical fitness test to all students in 
the fifth grade. The physical fitness test measures 
each student™s ability to complete six fitness tasks in 
six major areas. Students that either meet or exceed the standards in all six fitness areas are considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative district and state results can be found 
at the CDE™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEVictoriano Elementary School provides a safe, 
clean environment for learning through proper 
facilities maintenance and campus supervision. 
Original school buildings were constructed in 1989; ongoing maintenance ensures school 
facilities are kept safe and in good working condition and continue to provide adequate space 
for students and staff. 
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Addition of a cover in the dismissal area
Ł Installation of new flooringŁ Upgrades to windowsŁ Addition of a STEAM lab
2019-20 Campus Improvements in Progress:Ł Addition of a cover in the dismissal area
Ł Installation of carpet in portables and 11 
  classroomsŁ Reslurry blacktopŁ Installation of new flooring in the front office, 
  work room, and staff lounge
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝
ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝˙˛††˝†
“‘˙˚˙˛††˝†
˙š˚†˝†˙€†˙ˇ†
††
•˘’˝˛˝
‡˘…ˇ˝˚˙š
˙
—–˚˝˙ƒ⁄˙š
˙•˛’
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
Victoriano Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SUPERVISION AND SAFETYAs a component of the school™s secure campus 
policy, school facilities are fully enclosed with 
perimeter fencing. Only students are allowed to travel in and out of two entrance gates; parents and guardians must enter the campus through the 
school™s main office.
Each morning as students arrive on campus, teachers, crossing guards and administrators are on the playground and in the multipurpose room 
where breakfast is served to monitor activities and behavior. The principal supervises and greets 
students as they pass through the main entrance. During recess, six supervision aides monitor playground activities. During lunch recess, five 
supervision aides share the responsibility of monitoring students in the cafeteria and on the playground. When students are dismissed at the end of the day, teachers escort their students to the 
main exit areas. Four teachers, crossing guards, and administrators are assigned supervision 
duty at designated areas in front of the campus to ensure students depart in a safe and orderly manner.
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers or to participate in school events. To maintain a 
safe and secure environment, all parents and visitors are required to check in at the school office. 
Utilizing the Raptor System, visitors must present a valid picture identification, obtain and wear a visitor™s badge, and then return to the school office 
upon departure.SCHOOL INSPECTIONSVictoriano Elementary School and the Val Verde 
Unified School District™s Maintenance and 
Operations Department (M&O) work together to ensure student safety and uphold high cleaning standards. M&O supervisors and school administration inspect facilities on a continual basis to identify and resolve concerns in a proactive and 
timely manner. The most recent facilities inspection 
at Victoriano Elementary School took place on 
July 16, 2019. Schools are required by state law to report the condition of their facilities; the School 
Site Inspection table illustrated in this report 
identifies the state-required inspection areas and discloses the operational status in each of those 
areas. During fiscal year 2019-20, all restrooms were fully functional and available for student use at the time of the inspection.SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for Victoriano Elementary School in 
collaboration with local agencies and the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 requirements.  The 
Val Verde Unified School District partners with 
Hour-Zero for school emergency response 
planning, management, consulting, and training. Hour-Zero specialists support district and 
school staff with the ongoing development of a 
comprehensive emergency preparedness program 
to address critical components of emergency response planning and compliance with federal and state requirements.Components of Victoriano Elementary™s safety plan 
include child abuse reporting procedures, teacher notification of dangerous pupil procedures, disaster 
response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and departure from school, sexual harassment policy, dress code policy, and bully prevention 
policy. The school™s most recent safety plan was 
reviewed, updated, and shared with school staff 
January 2019.Training activities in use of equipment and safety 
procedures are led by district risk management representatives, vendors, and department supervisors. The district™s Operations Supervisor 
visits Victoriano Elementary School monthly to 
review custodial performance, discuss campus maintenance needs with the principal, evaluate conditions of the school facility, and follow up on 
outstanding work order requests.CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGA safe, clean school and an effective learning 
program provide the basis for Victoriano 
Elementary School™s discipline program. School 
staff support an environment that teaches 
students, through the daily curriculum, the skills 
to resolve conflicts and take responsibility for their decisions. Each grade level team has established a behavior management plan to address classroom management policies and incentive programs 
in alignment with schoolwide rules, policies, and incentive programs promoting good behavior and 
strong character. School and classroom rules are 
posted in each classroom. At the beginning of 
the school year, school rules, discipline policies, 
and academic expectations are shared with students and parents in a presentation at Back to School Night. The student-parent handbook 
(available in both English and Spanish) includes school rules and behavior expectations and is available on the school website. Welcome Back 
assemblies include a review of school rules, behavior expectations, and rewards/incentive programs. As part of the morning address, ASB 
students share examples of positive character and citizenship. Teachers reinforce behavior 
expectations daily and as needed through the 
year. School assemblies may include reminders 
for students to conduct themselves in a safe, responsible, and courteous manner.
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s maintenance 
department work together to ensure playing 
fields, classrooms, and campus grounds are 
well-maintained and kept safe and functioning for students, staff, and visitors. Maintenance 
and Operations (M&O) continues to employ an electronic work order process to facilitate 
and improve services to Victoriano Elementary 
School. Teachers and school staff communicate 
unscheduled maintenance needs, urgent repairs, or special projects to designated custodial and office 
support staff who prepare and submit work orders 
to M&O for resolution. Emergency situations are immediately resolved either by the school custodian or district maintenance staff.   
DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time lead day custodian, one full-time 
evening custodian, and one part-time late evening custodian are assigned to Victoriano Elementary 
School and work closely with the principal for routine maintenance, daily custodial duties, and 
special events. The principal and lead custodian 
communicate daily to discuss campus cleaning needs and safety concerns. Every morning before school begins, the custodian inspects the facilities for safety hazards, graffiti, and other conditions 
that require immediate attention or removal prior to students and staff entering school grounds. The 
custodian checks the restrooms throughout the 
day as a proactive measure to keep restrooms fully stocked, safe, and sanitary.
Custodians are responsible for cleaning campus 
grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and common areas to ensure facilities remain in good working condition, clean, and safe for students, staff, and 
visitors. The custodians are required to inspect 
restrooms a minimum of two times a day and 
subsequently document restroom inspections in 
their daily inspection log. All custodians follow 
approved district standards and procedures for routine custodial functions and campus maintenance. Groundskeepers are on campus once a week and are responsible for general 
gardening and maintenance work such as trash and debris removal, landscaping care, irrigation system 
maintenance, and playing field maintenance. Each custodian is provided one week of intensive training upon employment.  Thereafter, training is 
coordinated by district maintenance supervisors 
and custodial staff meetings are held twice annually. 



Victoriano Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł School Safety and Emergency ProceduresŁ Science, Technology, Engineering, Art & Math 
  Instruction and ResourcesŁ STEM Units of StudyŁ Site Hazardous Materials Training
During the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 school years, Val Verde Unified School District provided 
professional development on the following topics: During the 2019-20 school year, teachers also 
had the opportunity to participate in the following 
professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes 
new teachers and provides intensive training to help them experience success in their new classrooms. For ongoing professional guidance, the district supports new and veteran teachers in developing their teaching skills. California 
Teachers Induction (CTID) program, a state-
sponsored program, is designed for first- and second-year credentialed teachers and provides skills assistance over a two-year period. The Peer 
Assistance and Review program is designed to 
improve the education of students and increase the classroom performance of teachers, targeting both new and veteran teachers. Victoriano Elementary School utilizes both the Chief Leads Program and the Positive Behavior 
Intervention and Support system.  The Chief Leads program is a preventative program.  It is designed 
for all students and is preventative and responsive to any and all acts of bullying.  The Positive Behavior 
Support System is integrated with Chief Leads bully prevention program.  Through the Positive Behavior 
Support System, our school community provides intentional structures for student success through positive behavior expectations.Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the classroom when students are disruptive or demonstrating poor citizenship. When students continue having difficulty following school rules, teachers refer the 
student to the principal for further intervention. Consequences and disciplinary action are based upon the student™s past behavioral trend and severity of infraction. Discipline measures are consistently applied 
in a fair and firm manner. Frequent praise and positive reinforcement are the backbone of Victoriano 
Elementary™s efforts to promote good behavior and academic achievement.  
Perfect attendance is recognized at the end of each month with student incentives. At the end of each 
trimester, students are formally recognized for their efforts in meeting designated criteria. Awards are 
presented for: Honor Roll; Perfect Attendance; Behavior; and Citizenship.  
CLASS SIZE The Class Size Distribution table in this report illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each 
grade level, the average class size, and the number 
of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 students, and 33 or more students.ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESStudents are encouraged to participate in 
the school™s many additional academic and 
extracurricular activities. These programs promote 
positive attitudes, encourage achievement, and 
instill a sense of belonging among students. Ł After School Coding Club
Ł After School Intramural Athletics
Ł Associated Student Body (ASB)
Ł GATE After-School Enrichment
Ł Schoolwide STEAM ProgramŁ Snap the Gap (UC Davis - Girls Coding)Ł THINK Together
Ł VAPA
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement 
activities at Val Verde Unified School District are 
aligned to the California State Standards. The 
District™s Educational Services Department selects 
staff development concentrations based on principal 
feedback, teacher survey results, California State Standards, district benchmark assessment results, 
and state standardized test results. During the 2018-19 school year, Victoriano 
Elementary School held staff development training 
focused on:Ł 21st Century Learning Programs & GoalsŁ 95% Intervention Training
Ł Advanced Learning Technology
Ł AVID
Ł Common Core State StandardsŁ Conceptual MathŁ Digital Applications
Ł English Language Arts Adoption
Ł Google DocsŁ Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS)Ł Positive Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS)Ł Response to InterventionŁ Restorative Practices˜˚˛˝
˛˜˚˙˛
˙˙ˆˇ˝
˜˝˜
˛˝˜
˙˝˜˘
˝
˘˘˝˜
ˇ˝
˜˝˜
˛˝
˘˙˝
˘˝
˘˘˝˜˘
˝˜
ˇ˝
˜˝
˘˛˝
˘˙˝
˘˝
˘˘˝˛˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ


˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

†

‘’
€

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ






˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

†
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
Victoriano Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Victoriano Elementary School is a responsibility shared among the principal, teachers, and 
parents. Principal Tammy Roughton is responsible for the day-to-day operations and overall curriculum. 
The school™s leadership team, grade level teams, program facilitators, and School Site Council share 
in the decision-making and administrative processes to create an effective, safe, and nurturing learning 
environment. The school™s leadership team, comprised of the principal, grade level leaders, assistant principal, and the 
instructional coach, meet every other week to collaboratively address school policy issues and curriculum concerns. Team members are responsible for supporting the principal in leading program implementation 
and serving as a liaison to grade level teams.The School Site Council (SSC), consisting of the school principal, teachers, classified staff, and parents, 
is a major governing body that meets monthly to address school programs, discuss progress in meeting school goals, and serve as a liaison between the community and school administration. On an annual basis, the SSC is responsible for reviewing and approving the school site plan, safety plan, and budget.
SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the California State Standards and approved by the State Board of Education. Every child receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned core program. Victoriano Elementary School structures its educational program so that all students receive instruction 
appropriate to their learning level. To ensure the success of every student, teachers use a variety of 
instructional techniques using research-based instructional materials and project-based learning techniques.SPECIAL EDUCATIONSpecial education students are mainstreamed into the general education classroom based upon their IEP (Individual Education Plan) and provided instruction in the least restrictive environment. Special 
education teachers, special education aides, and general education teachers collaboratively utilize a team-oriented approach to provide maximum levels of instruction in the general education environment. For a portion of the regular school day, students may receive individual and/or small group instruction 
from special education staff in the Learning Center. A District Program Specialist meets with special 
education teachers regularly to provide support and assistance in developing student teaching schedules and allocating staff resources.
Each student is provided instruction based upon their IEP, which is reviewed and updated annually by the 
school™s IEP teams. The IEP ensures that students with disabilities have equal access to core curriculum 
and educational opportunities and is used to coordinate specially-designed instruction based upon 
individual academic, social, and behavioral needs. ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of Victoriano Elementary School™s teachers are certified and trained to provide instruction for students 
identified as English Learners (EL). Beginning level EL students receive English Language Development 
(ELD) instruction by their class teacher for 30 minutes a day as a supplement to their regular language arts curriculum. Following a specially-designed curriculum, ELD instruction focuses on reading 
development, verbal language development, and vocabulary building. One bilingual aide collaborates 
with class teachers to provide in-class small group and individual support based upon student needs. As 
students increase fluency in the English language, Victoriano Elementary School continues to monitor 
student performance through ELPAC results, benchmark assessments, and classroom observation 
to adjust instruction as needed to ensure continued success in acquiring the English language and 
proficiency in reading/language arts.  GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONVictoriano Elementary School offers a Gifted and Talented Education program for students  in third, 
fourth, and fifth grades who have been recognized as high achievers by their teachers and through district testing. GATE students are clustered by grade level to receive accelerated, differentiated 
instruction that emphasizes critical thinking and reasoning skills. Throughout the year, GATE students 
are engaged in enrichment activities as part of their regular curriculum and after school; students work 
on special projects such as creating digital media applications, robotics collaborative teams, as well as rigorous hands on projects.Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and support staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the district and Riverside County Office of Education. Professional and subject-
specific offerings are consistent with the California 
State Standards. Special education staff, resource specialist staff, 
bilingual aides, and instructional aides receive 
customized training to support the district™s 
educational programs and develop strategies to increase effectiveness in teaching practices. 
Classified support staff receive job-related 
training from department supervisors and district 
representatives; training activities and workshops are designed to enhance and extend job 
performance. Long-term substitute teachers may be encouraged to participate in site-sponsored activities to enhance their understanding of Val 
Verde Unified School District™s curriculum and 
classroom management practices.INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Val Verde Unified School District are 
being aligned to the California State Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected 
from the state™s most recent list of standards-
based materials and adopted by the State Board of Education. Instr
uctional materials for grades 
9-12 are standards-based and approved by the 
district™s Board of Education.  
On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified 
School District™s Board of Education held a 
public hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been provided to students. The Board of Education 
adopted Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies as required by Education Code §60119 that 
1) textbooks and instr
uctional materials were 
provided to all students, including English learners, in the district to the extent that each pupil has a standards-aligned textbook or instructional 
materials, or both, to use in class and to take home, 2) sufficient textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to each student, including English learners, that are aligned to the academic content standards and are consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks in mathematics, science, history-social science, and English/language arts, including the English 
language development component of an adopted program, 3) sufficient textbooks or instructional 
materials were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign language or health classes, and 4) 
sufficient laboratory science equipment was 
available for science laboratory classes offered 
in grades 9-12 inclusive. Within a six-week period prior to adoption, parents may preview recommended instructional materials at the district office or the school™s office.  
In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the sufficiency of instructional materials used for 
its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 
2019-20 school year, Val Verde Unified School 
District certifies that each student, including English learners, enrolled in a visual/performing arts class has been provided with a textbook or 
supplemental materials to use in class and to take home. These materials comply with the California 
State Standards.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚ˆ˘ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘
˙ˇˇ˚˛ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙ˇ˚ˆ˙
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘˘˘

“ˆ
“˘“ˆ
˙˘
‘ˆ’
ˇ˘“ˆˇ
˘˘ˇ˘
‡˘˘…
‘ˇˇˆ—ˇ˘
˘ƒ˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘⁄˘˘
›˘“ˆ˘
‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‰ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ
Victoriano Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATAQUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at http://
dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about Victoriano Elementary School 
and comparisons of the school to the district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest provides 
reports for school accountability, including but 
not limited to, CAASPP results, Physical Fitness 
results, Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access Victoriano Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet at any 
of the county™s public libraries or Victoriano 
Elementary™s library.  The closest library to 
Victoriano Elementary School is Moreno Valley 
Public Library located at 25480 Alessandro 
Blvd., Moreno Valley, CA 92553.
Moreno Valley Public Library 
(951) 413-3880Hours: Monday-Thursday 9-8            Friday 9-6            Saturday 9-5  
       Sunday 12-5Number of computers available: 15 adult   computers and 10 children™s computers
Number of printers available: 1Victoriano Elementary School Library
Hours: visit the school office
Number of computers available: 5Printers are available: NoINTERVENTION PROGRAMSVictoriano Elementary School supports intervention programs to meet the needs of those students not 
yet meeting state proficiency standards in reading, language arts, and math. Educational Management Teams comprised of school administrators, teachers, and parents work together to identify individualized 
intervention strategies for and monitor progress of students having difficulty with academic or social 
development. Formal intervention programs include:Ł Impact Substitute Teachers: Substitute teachers in the morning and in the afternoon provides support to 
regular classroom teachers who conduct small group intervention in reading and math.Ł THINK Together: Voluntary after-school program provided after school five days a week until 6 p.m. 
Students are engaged in a highly structured program that provides homework assistance, tutoring, enrichment, recreational activities, and sports.  Homework and tutoring support are strongly aligned to 
the student™s/school™s core curriculum under the supervision of a program coordinator. 
Ł Wonder Works: Intervention program that supports struggling students in reading and writing.
Ł Acadience: Computer based games for intervention in reading, writing, and math.
Ł Reading Tutors: Grades K-2 have three tutors to assist students in need.
PROFESSIONAL STAFFTEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, Victoriano Elementary School had 32 teachers who met all credential 
requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number of teachers at 
both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number of positions filled by 
teachers who lack legal authorization to teach that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.SUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, 
nurses, health technicians, and special education service providers. Through close collaboration, 
this expert team is instrumental in improving student attendance and achievement through the identification, referral, and remediation of health and/or emotional concerns. The psychologist assists with academic, social, and emotional issues; provides assessments to determine eligibility for Special Education services; and facilitates coordination of IEPs.  The school 
nurse conducts health screening programs. Health 
technicians provide basic aid. As a participating 
member of the Riverside County Special Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), Val Verde 
Unified School District and Victoriano Elementary 
School have access to a full complement of professional resources and services to meet the 
individual needs of its students with disabilities. 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˘
˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
ˇˇˇˆ˝˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘—
ˇˇˇˇ˝–
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ

——ƒ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘









Victoriano Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT EXPENDITURESSALARY & BUDGET COMPARISONState law requires comparative salary and budget 
information to be reported to the general public. For comparison purposes, the State Department of Education has provided average salary data 
from school districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state.EXPENDITURES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Verd
e Unified School District spent an average of $11,189 
of total general funds to educate each student (based on 2017-18 audited financial statements and in accordance with calculations defined in Education Code §41372). The table in this report 1) 
compares the school™s per pupil expenditures from 
unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed 
information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/
ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect the direct cost 
of educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and 
certain other expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, state, 
and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:
Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing Option
Ł Ongoing & Major Maintenance Accounts
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education











