Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2018-19 school year, Mary McLeod 
Bethune Elementary School served 616 students in grades K-5. Student enrollment included 10.2% receiving special education services, 
26.6% qualifying for English learner support, and 88.5% qualifying for free or reduced-price meals. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘
˘‘


˘š


˘€
˘‡
…ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

˚ˇ„–

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙


…ˇ™ˇ
”

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
For over 20 years, Mary McLeod Bethune 
Elementary has been offering a high quality 
educational program through a team of dedicated professionals.  Rigorous academics are designed and modified on a continual basis to meet the changing needs of our students.  LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP). The following components of this 
SARC address some of the priorities identified in the District™s LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are appropriately assigned and fully credentialed 
in the subject areas and for the pupils they are teaching; pupils have access to standards-
aligned Instructional materials and school 
facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to Mary McLeod 
Bethune Elementary School! Our 
kindergarten through fifth grade elementary school is named after Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune who is famous for 
founding Bethune-Cookman College (1923). We 
are a learning community where students, parents, and staff are connected and committed to learning 
and academic excellence.  As a school, we believe that students not only need to be college and career ready, but ﬁInnovation 
Ready.ﬂ Today™s competitive, global-market 
place is in desperate need of workers who can 
communicate and work well with others to creatively solve real-world problems. As such, our school is 
moving toward becoming a 21st century school to best prepare ﬁInnovation Readyﬂ students who can think creatively, continuously learn, and adapt to an 
ever-changing work environment. In the past, we have been recognized as a California Distinguished School and a Title I Academic Achievement School. 
We intend to build upon that past success of strong 
foundational skills in reading, math, and writing (the 
traditional 3Rs) with the tools of the 21st centuryŠ
the 4Cs: Communication, Collaboration, Creativity, 
and Critical Thinking. While our journey to become 
a 21st century school will be tough, we are up to the challenge! We look forward to making it happen 
for our students. Our parent community stands with us to support our direction and we believe that a 
small group of people who believe the same thing can do great things together!  MISSION STATEMENT
Our mission is to inspire students to be innovators, 
designers, and creators of their own future.DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in the 
heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 72 miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the district and its 
communities are March Air Reserve Base and the 
Lake Perris recreational area.  During the 2018-19 school year, the district™s schools served more than 
20,200 students residing in the rural and suburban communities of Perris, Moreno Valley, and portions 
of unincorporated Riverside County.  The district 
currently operates a preschool, 12 elementary schools, 4 middle schools, 3 comprehensive high schools, a student success academy, a virtual 
academy, and a continuation high school. 
MARY MCLEOD BETHUNE25390 Krameria Street, Moreno Valley, CA 92551
 Phone: (951) 490-0380  Ł  Fax: (951) 490-0385Tom Gronotte, Principal
 E-mail: tgronotte@valverde.eduELEMENTARY
 SCHOOLMary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks 
chart; and School Facilities & Maintenance, 
including the Campus Description and School 
Facility Good Repair Status charts.Conditions of Learning (Implementation 
of State Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  
Implementation of academic content and 
performance standards adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not covered in the School 
Accountability Report Card.Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts 
to seek parent input in decision making, 
promotion of parent participation in programs 
for unduplicated pupils and special need 
subgroups.  Covered in Parent Involvement.Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score 
on Academic Performance Index, share of 
pupils that are college and career ready, 
share of English learners that become English 
proficient, English learner reclassification rate, share of pupils that pass Advanced Placement 
exams with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils 
determined prepared for college by the Early 
Assessment Program.  Covered in California 
Assessment of Student Performance and Progress, including the CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic absenteeism rates, middle school dropout 
rates, high school dropout rates, and high school graduation rates.   Covered in Dropout 
Rates, including the Dropout chart; and 
Graduation Rates, including the Graduation 
Rate chart for high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, 
and parents and teachers on the sense of 
safety and school connectedness.  Covered 
in Discipline & Climate for Learning, including 
Suspension & Expulsion chart; and School Site 
Safety Plan.Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course 
of study that includes all of the subject areas.   
Not covered in the School Accountability 
Report Card.Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in 
Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness 
Test chart.
.PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to school and student success.  Mary McLeod 
Bethune Elementary School offers a wide 
variety of opportunities for parents to support the school and their child academically through 
volunteering or simply attending school events. Parents seeking more information or who are interested in participating in any of the activities 
listed below may contact the school secretary or the school office at (951) 490-0380.
Volunteer to Help:
Ł In the classrooms, library, and school office
Ł Chaperone field tripsJoin Leadership GroupsŁ School Site CouncilŁ Parent Advisory Committee
Ł English Learner Advisory Council
Ł Parent Teacher Organization
Attend Special Events & Workshops
Ł Back to School NightŁ Student PerformancesŁ Parent Education Workshops
Ł Parent ConferencesŁ Family Math and Reading NightsSchool-to-home communication is provided in 
both English and Spanish. A calendar of events 
is available to view on our school website. 
Some grade level teams send letters home to 
keep parents apprised of classroom activities 
and curriculum news. School Messenger and 
Blackboard Connect, an automated messaging 
system, is used to quickly forward personalized 
messages from school staff to each student™s 
home. Flyers, letters, and the school marquee are utilized as needed to share special 
announcements and reminders. The school 
website features general information. Parents can access their student™s information through 
the new Val Verde app.
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT BENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student 
learning. District benchmark assessments 
supplement multiple measures of assessment 
to identify students™ mastery of content, depth 
of knowledge, and skills. District benchmark 
assessments are aligned to the California State 
Standards and are comprised of both formative 
and summative assessments given in math, 
reading, and language arts. During the 2018-
19 school year, all students in grades 1-5 were 
assessed multiple times utilizing a system of 
short-cycle formative assessments to identify content area mastery and specific gaps in the learning process.  Students in grades 7-12 
were evaluated quarterly throughout the year to 
determine course grades and levels of content 
mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used 
to identify student progress, understanding of 
state content standards, and mastery of subject 
area matter/concepts. These measures include: 
state summative assessments, benchmark assessments, grade level/department common 
assessments, classroom observations, teacher-
created assessments, adaptive diagnostic 
assessments in reading and math, and early 
indicators of reading assessments. Collectively, 
the benchmark assessments and multiple 
measures aid teachers in 1) identifying areas where instruction may or may not be effective; 
2) guiding classroom instruction practices and 
strategies; and 3) identifying students who need 
targeted academic assistance or intervention. 
Teachers and administrators are able to 
pinpoint any deficiencies or gaps in the learning 
process, identifying very specific skill sets and 
subject area content that needs to be retaught, reinforced, or revised to ensure every student obtains a solid foundation for future success in 
learning.˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
˚˛˝˚˚
ˇ
PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, Mary McLeod 
Bethune Elementary School is required by the state to administer a physical fitness test to all students in the fifth grade. The physical fitness 
test measures each student™s ability to complete 
six fitness tasks in six major areas. Students that either meet or exceed the standards in all six fitness areas are considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative 
district and state results can be found at the CDE™s web site www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESS (CAASPP)The California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) 
System includes the Smarter Balanced 
Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students 
in the general education population, and the 
California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for 
students with the most significant cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may 
participate in the administration of the CAAs.  
CAAs items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards, which are linked with 
the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  
CAASPP results are a measure of how well 
students are mastering California™s standards 
in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests 
assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement 
standards which are linked with the Common 
Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the school™s 
overall score in each applicable subgroup. 
Results are shown only for subgroups with 
ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More 
information on CAASPP can be found on the 
California Department of Education™s website 
www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/
.Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛
ˇ

““‘ˆ’
š
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
†
““‘
˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘

•‡…—–•‡…—–
˝˘ˆ…˘˘ˆ˚šˆ˝˛
‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹˘
‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‘˚
‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹−ˆˆ‰˝˛


„˛
‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹˜‚˚ˆˆ™
‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹˝˙˙ﬁˆ‡˝˘˛



ˇ”ˆ


˛ˆ‚˛”ˆ‡˛


‘˛ˆŁ”
‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˛˙
ˇ˙
ˆˆˆ˘˙˚˘˜ˇˆ˚
˘˘†“‘’

SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEMary McLeod Bethune Elementary School provides a safe, clean environment for learning through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Original school buildings were constructed in 1990; ongoing maintenance ensures school facilities are kept safe and in good working condition 
and continue to provide adequate space for students and staff. 
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Addition of of a new STEAM lab
Ł Upgrades to the ceiling and windowsSCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for Mary McLeod Bethune 
Elementary School in collaboration with local 
agencies and the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 
187 requirements. The Val Verde Unified School 
District partners with Hour-Zero for school 
emergency response planning, management, consulting, and training. Hour-Zero  specialists 
support district and school staff with the 
ongoing development of a comprehensive 
emergency preparedness program to address 
critical components of emergency response 
planning and compliance with federal and state 
requirements.Components of Mary McLeod Bethune 
Elementary™s school safety plan include child 
abuse reporting procedures, teacher notification of dangerous pupil procedures, disaster 
response procedures, procedures for safe arrival 
and departure from school, sexual harassment 
policy, dress code policy, and  bully prevention 
policy. The school™s most current safety plan was 
reviewed, updated, and shared with school staff 
in May 2019.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝
ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝˙˛††˝†
˙˚˙˛††˝†
˙’˚†˝†˙š†˙ˇ†˚€
††
˙…˛‘
…˘‘˝˛˝
‡˘—ˇ˝˚˙’
˙
–˚˝˙ƒ⁄˙’
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance department work together to 
ensure playing fields, classrooms, and campus 
grounds are well-maintained and kept safe 
and functioning for students, staff, and visitors. 
Maintenance and Operations (M&O) continues 
to employ an electronic work order process 
to facilitate and improve services to Mary 
McLeod Bethune Elementary School. Teachers 
and school staff communicate unscheduled 
maintenance needs, urgent repairs, or special 
projects to designated custodial and office 
support staff who prepare and submit work 
orders to M&O for resolution. Emergency 
situations are immediately resolved either by the school custodian or district maintenance staff.
SCHOOL INSPECTIONSMary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 
and the Val Verde Unified School District™s 
Maintenance and Operations Department 
(M&O) work together to ensure student safety 
and uphold high cleaning standards. M&O 
supervisors and school administration inspect 
facilities on a continual basis to identify
 and resolve concerns in a proactive and timely manner. The most recent facilities inspection 
at Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 
took place on July 16, 2019. Schools are required by state law to report the condition 
of their facilities; the School Facility Good 
Repair Status table ill
ustrated in this report identifies the state-required inspection areas 
and discloses the operational status in each 
of those areas. During fiscal year 2019-20, all 
restrooms were fully functional and available for 
student use at the time of the inspection.DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time day custodian, one part-time mid-day custodian, one full-time evening 
custodian, and a groundskeeper are assigned 
to Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 
and work closely with the principal for routine 
maintenance, daily custodial duties, and 
special events. The principal and the custodian 
communicate daily, as needed, to discuss 
campus cleaning needs and safety concerns. 
Every morning before school begins, the 
custodian inspects school facilities for safety 
hazards, graffiti, and other conditions that 
require immediate attention or removal prior 
to students and staff entering school grounds. 
Custodians inspect restrooms every  hour as 
a proactive measure to keep restrooms fully 
stocked, safe, and sanitary.  Noon supervisors 
monitor the restrooms continuously during 
recess and lunch.Custodians are responsible for cleaning 
campus grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and 
common areas to ensure facilities remain in 
good working condition, clean, and safe for 
students, staff, and visitors.  The custodians 
are required to inspect restrooms a minimum 
of two times a day and subsequently document 
restroom inspections in their daily inspection log. All custodians follow approved district 
standards and procedures for routine custodial 
functions and campus maintenance. The 
groundskeeper is responsible for general 
gardening and maintenance work such as 
trash and debris removal, landscaping care, 
irrigation system maintenance, and playing field 
maintenance. CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGA safe, clean school and an effective learning 
program provide the basis for Mary McLeod 
Bethune Elementary School™s discipline 
program. School staff support an environment 
that teaches students, through the daily 
curriculum, the skills to resolve conflicts and 
take responsibility for their decisions. The 
schoolwide discipline plan focuses on a positive 
approach to managing disruptive behavior. 
Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 
utilizes the Positive Behavior Intervention and Support system.  The PBIS bully prevention 
program is a preventative program which requires active participation from all members 
of our school community.  It is designed for all 
students and is preventative and responsive 
to any and all acts of bullying.  Our Positive 
Behavior Support System will provide 
intentional structures for student success 
through positive behavior expectations.Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary uses a schoolwide positive behavior support 
approach to ﬁdisciplineﬂ, based on the latest 
understandings in child psychology. Using 
the principles of self-determination theory, 
the theory of relatedness, and choice theory, 
we systematically teach pro-social behaviors 
and support students with learning-centered 
interventions when they fall short of our 
expectations. During the first three days of schools, all 
students are taught the Wildcat Expectations, which outlines in detail our common 
expectations for student behavior. The 
Wildcat Expectations are posted everywhere 
on campus especially in each teacher™s 
classroom. We also implement schoolwide 
Monday lessons each week on a series of thematic topics including:Each custodian is provided one week of 
intensive training upon employment.  Thereafter, 
training is coordinated by district maintenance 
supervisors and custodial staff meetings are 
held twice annually. Training activities in use 
of equipment and safety procedures are led 
by district risk management representatives, 
vendors, and department supervisors. The 
district™s Operations Supervisor visits Mary 
McLeod Bethune Elementary School monthly to 
review custodial performance, discuss campus 
maintenance needs with the principal, evaluate 
conditions of the school facility, and follow up on 
outstanding work order requests.SUPERVISION AND SAFETYEach morning as students arrive on campus, the 
principal, supervisor aides, and teachers greet 
students at designated entrances and monitor 
breakfast activities. During recess, the principal 
and noon supervisors monitor the students 
on the playground. During lunch recess, noon 
supervisors are responsible for monitoring 
student behavior and activities in the outside 
meal areas and on the playground. When 
students are dismissed at the end of the day, 
four main exit areas are each monitored by one 
teacher, special education teachers supervise 
the bus loading area, and the principal and a set 
of teachers supervise the dismissal area in the 
parking lot to ensure students leave campus in a 
safe and orderly manner. 
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain 
a safe and secure environment, all parents 
and visitors are required to check in at the school office upon arrival and present valid 
picture identification, obtain and wear a visitor™s 
badge, and then return to the school office upon 
departure.˜˚˛˝˙˜ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘




ˇ˙˛
˜˚ˇ˘˙˛
˘˚˙˛˛
˙ˆˇ˘ˆ
˙˛ˇ˛˚˛
˙ˇ
ˇˇ
†ˇ



“‘
˘
˜˚˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˙˙˙˙ˇ˙
˙˙˙˙˙ˆ˘˙
˙˘˙˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
ˇ˘˙˙˙
˛˝˝˛˘˚
˛˘˚ˇ
˘˙ˇ
˛˘˙˙˙
ˆ˙˙˙ˆ
’š€ššˇ˘˙˛˙˛•šš˙˘
˘ˇ˘˙˛
˘˛˛˘˚…•šš˘ˆ˘˛˘

ƒˇ—•šš˘ˆ˘˛ˇ
ƒˇ—
ššˇ˚˙ˇ˘˛ƒ
’š€šš’˚ˇ˘˛ˆ˝˝˘˛
’š€šš›˘˘˛˛˘˙
−’šˇ˛˛ˇ
š˘˝
ˇ˛ˆ⁄˛˘ˇˇ

ˇ˘—•’š€š”’š€šš›˘
˙˚ˇ•
“ˇ˛šˆ⁄˛ˇˆˇ˛ˇ˘
—
Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 
school years, Val Verde Unified School District 
provided professional development on the following topics: During the 2019-20 school year, teachers 
also had the opportunity to participate in the 
following professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes 
new teachers and provides intensive training 
to help them experience success in their 
new classrooms. For ongoing professional 
guidance, the district supports new and veteran 
teachers in developing their teaching skills. 
California Teacher Induction (CTID) program, 
a state-sponsored program, is designed for 
first- and second-year credentialed teachers 
and provides skills assistance over a two-
year period. The Peer Assistance and Review 
program is designed to improve the education 
of students and increase the classroom 
performance of teachers, targeting both new 
and veteran teachers. Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/
teacher leaders, administrators, and support Ł Bully awareness and preventionŁ SEL topics from ﬁBoys Townﬂ and our districts PBIS programs
Ł Confidence building, effective communication, decision making, goal setting, studying effectively, 
  problem-solving, resolving conflicts, and college and career readinessOn occasion, students make seriously poor behavioral choices. Our approach is still to call into 
question the decision-making process and administer progressive discipline as required by the 
district and or state. Consequences and disciplinary action are based upon the student™s past 
behavioral trend and severity of infraction. Ultimately, we want students to move from externally 
controlled monitoring (or discipline) to the more independent state of self-monitoring or self-
discipline.The principal visits all the classrooms to reinforce our positive behavior expectations for student 
behavior. Additionally, we hold assemblies, student-centered activities, music, and citizenship 
awards.  Our schoolwide positive behavior system is about teaching pro-social behaviors, 
supporting students who make poor choices, and reinforcing their efforts towards making better 
choices. Consequences and disciplinary action are based upon the student™s past behavioral trend 
and severity of infraction. Discipline measures are consistently applied in a fair and firm manner. 
Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School™s behavior management policies are based on the 
Character Counts! program which promotes six pillars of character (trustworthiness, responsibility, 
respect, fairness, caring, and citizenship). Students are actively engaged in class discussions about 
each of the behavioral traits and how they may be applied to daily interaction at school and at home.
CLASS SIZEThe Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-
32 students, and 33 or more students.ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESStudents are encouraged to participate in the 
school™s additional academic and extracurricular 
activities. These programs promote positive 
attitudes, encourage achievement, and 
instill a sense of belonging among students. 
Extracurricular and enrichment activities include: 
GATE enrichment,  Spelling Bee, Science Fair, 
Computer Coding Program, Readers Theater, and 
Associated Student Body. 
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement 
activities at Val Verde Unified School District 
are aligned to the California State Standards. 
The district™s Educational Services Department 
selects staff development concentrations based 
on principal feedback, teacher survey results, 
California State Standards, district benchmark 
assessment results, and state standardized test 
results.During the 2018-19 school year, Mary McLeod 
Bethune Elementary School held staff development 
focused on:Ł 21st Century SkillsŁ ELD/ELAŁ Close ReadingŁ Common Core State Standards (CCSS)Ł Depth of Knowledge (DoK)Ł Design Thinking
Ł Google Apps for Education
Ł Instructional Shifts in Mathematics and English Language Arts
Ł Response to Intervention (RtI)Ł STEAM EducationŁ Positive Behavior Intervention & Support˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛
†’’šˇ€
•
˜˚˛˝
˛˜˚˙˛
˙˙ˆˇ˝˜˜
˜˝
˙˛˝
˙˙˝˜˘
˘˝˜˙
˝˛˙
˝˜
ˇ˝
˜˝
˙˛˝
˙˙˝
˙˘˝˛˙
˝˜˙
ˇ˝˜˛
˜˝˜˙
˛˝
˙˙˝
˙˘˝
˙˝˛˛˜
˝˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝



“‘
š
˛˝˜•˚


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary 
School is a responsibility shared among the 
principal, teachers, and parents. The principal 
is responsible for the day-to-day operations 
and overall curriculum.  The school™s leadership 
team, program facilitators, and School Site 
Council share in the decision-making and 
administrative processes to create an effective, 
safe, and nurturing learning environment. The school™s leadership team, comprised of 
the principal, grade level leaders, committee 
representatives, instructional coach, site 
secretary, and the Special Education Facilitator 
meet to collaboratively make the best decisions 
regarding schoolwide objectives, discuss 
concerns, and celebrate successes. Grade 
level leaders are responsible for guiding their 
teams through data analysis, staff development 
training, and leadership of school committees.    
An effective school environment is dependent 
upon many focus groups designed to target 
specific activities and functions of Mary McLeod 
Bethune Elementary.  The Retention Committee, 
Social Committee, and Special Education 
Advisory Committee use a variety of resources 
to develop beneficial services and programs 
for all student groups.  In some cases, school 
committees engage parents to provide input and 
feedback to ensure equal access to schoolwide 
programs and that student needs are met. The School Site Council (SSC), consisting of the principal, teachers, classified staff, and 
parents, is a major governing body that meets 
monthly to address school programs, discuss 
progress in meeting school goals, and serve 
as a liaison between the community and school 
administration. On an annual basis, the SSC 
is responsible for reviewing and approving the 
school site plan, safety plan, and budget.SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the 
California State Standards approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every child receives a 
rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned core 
program. Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School structures its educational program so 
that all students receive instruction appropriate 
to their learning level. To ensure the success 
of every student, teachers use a variety of 
instructional techniques using research-based 
instructional materials and strategies.staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the district and Riverside County Office of Education. Professional and subject-
specific offerings are consistent with the 
California State Standards. Special education staff, resource specialist 
staff, bilingual aides, and instructional aides 
receive customized training to support the 
district™s educational programs and develop 
strategies to increase effectiveness in teaching 
practices. Classified support staff receive job-
related training from department supervisors 
and district representatives; training activities and workshops are designed to enhance and 
extend job performance. Long-term substitute teachers may be encouraged to participate 
in site-sponsored activities to enhance 
their understanding of Val Verde Unified 
School District™s curriculum and classroom 
management practices.INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Val Verde Unified School District 
are being aligned to the California State 
Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected from the state™s most recent 
list of standards-based materials and adopt
ed by the State Board of Education. Instructional 
materials for grades 9-12 are standards-
based and approved by the district™s Board of 
Education.  On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified 
School District™s Board of Education held a 
public hearing to certify the extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Board of Education 
adopted Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies 
as required by Education Code §60119 that 
1) textbooks and instructional materials were provided to all students, including English 
learners, in the district to the extent that each 
pupil has a standards-aligned textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 
and to take home, 2) sufficient textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English learners, that are 
aligned to the academic content standards 
and are consistent with the cycles and conte
nt of the curriculum frameworks in mathematics, 
science, history-social science, and English/
language arts, including the English language 
development component of an adopted 
program, 3) sufficient textbooks or instructional 
materials were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign language or health classes, and 4) 
sufficient laboratory science equipment was 
available for science laboratory classes offered 
in grades 9-12 inclusive. Within a six-week period prior to adoption, parents may preview 
recommended instructional materials at the 
district office or the school™s office.
In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for 
its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 
2019-20 school year, Val Verde Unified School 
District certifies that each student, including 
English learners, enrolled in a visual/performing 
arts class has been provided with a textbook or supplemental materials to use in class and 
to take home. These materials comply with the 
California State Standards.SPECIAL EDUCATIONSpecial education students are mainstreamed into the general education classroom based 
upon their IEP (Individual Education Plan) 
and provided instruction in the least restrictive environment. Special education teachers, 
special education aides, and general education 
teachers take a team-oriented approach to 
provide maximum levels of instruction in the 
general education environment. For a portion 
of the regular school day, students may receive 
individual and/or small group instruction from 
special education staff in the Learning Center. 
A District Program Specialist meets with special 
education teachers regularly to provide support 
and assistance in developing student teaching 
schedules and allocating staff resources.
Each student is provided instruction based 
upon their IEP, which is reviewed and updated 
annually by the school™s IEP teams. The IEP 
ensures that students with disabilities have 
equal access to core curriculum and educational 
opportunities and is used to coordinate specially-
designed instruction based upon individual 
academic, social, and behavioral needs.  ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary™s 
teachers are certified and trained to provide 
instruction for students identified as English 
Learners (EL). Beginning level EL students 
receive English Language Development (ELD) 
instruction by their class teacher (fifth grade) 
or through a team teaching approach (grades 
1-4) for 30 minutes a day as a supplement to 
their regular language arts curriculum. Using 
specially-designed McGraw-Hill 
Wonders materials, ELD instruction focuses on reading development, verbal language development, 
and vocabulary building. A bilingual aide 
collaborates with class teachers to provide in-
class small group support based upon individual student needs. As students increase fluency in 
the English language, Mary McLeod Bethune 
Elementary School continues to monitor student 
performance through ELPAC results, benchmark 
assessments, and classroom observation to adjust instruction as needed to ensure continued 
success in acquiring the English language and 
proficiency in reading/language arts.  Impact teachers (certificated teachers) provide instruction for third, fourth, and fifth grade 
learners. Students participate in small group instruction outside the general education 
classroom. Lessons and activities focus on 
vocabulary development. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚ˆ˘ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘
˙ˇˇ˚˛ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙ˇ˚ˆ˙
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘˘˘

“ˆ
“˘“ˆ
˙˘
‘ˆ’
ˇ˘“ˆˇ
˘˘ˇ˘
‡˘˘…
‘ˇˇˆ—ˇ˘
˘ƒ˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘⁄˘˘
›˘“ˆ˘
‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‰ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ
Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONMary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 
offers a Gifted and Talented Education program 
for students who have been recognized as 
high achievers by their teachers and through 
district testing. Both GATE and non-GATE 
high achievers are clustered by grade level to 
receive accelerated, differentiated instruction 
that offers more depth and complexity 
throughout the curriculum. GATE students are 
invited to participate in school activities; theme-
based projects are centered around science, 
hands-on activities, and performing arts with a 
focus on scientific engineering practices.AVIDMary McLeod Bethune Elementary School is an AVID elementary school.  AVID Elementary 
is a foundational component of the AVID 
College Readiness System and supports 
AVID™s mission to close the achievement gap 
by preparing all students for college readiness 
and success in a global society.  Based on the 
same learning foundation that underlies AVID 
Secondary, AVID Elementary is designed to 
be embedded into the daily instruction of all 
elementary classrooms across entire grade levels to maintain school wide structures.  AVID 
Elementary™s implementation of resources, 
trainings, and philosophy are all grounded in the idea that growth mindset can be taught to students.  It is through the growth mindset 
that AVID students succeed in following their 
dreams and fulfilling their aspirations.  AVID 
Elementary takes a systemic approach through the use of WICOR (Writing, Inquiry, 
Collaboration, Organization, Reading) and an 
explicit focus on high expectations, rigor, and 
developing a college readiness culture.INTERVENTION PROGRAMSMary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 
supports intervention programs to meet the 
needs of those students not meeting state 
proficiency standards in reading, language 
arts, and math. Response to Intervention 
Teams comprised of school administrators, 
teachers, and parents work together to identify 
individualized intervention strategies and 
monitor progress of students having difficulty 
with academic or social development. Formal 
intervention programs include:ŁTHINK together: a voluntary after-school program provided five days a week until 
6:00 p.m. Students are engaged in a highly 
structured program that provides homework 
assistance, tutoring, enrichment, recreational 
activities, and sports. ŁImpact Substitute Teachers (two): substitute 
teachers in the morning and in the afternoon provide support to regular classroom teachers 
who conduct small group intervention in reading 
and math.PROFESSIONAL STAFFTEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School had 25 teachers who 
met all credential requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies 
the number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full 
credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 
5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers 
to the number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal authorization to teach that grade level, 
subject area, student group, etc.SUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, 
nurses, health technicians, and special education service providers. Through close collaboration, 
this expert team is instrumental in improving student attendance and achievement through 
the identification, referral, and remediation 
of health and/or emotional concerns. As a 
participating member of the Riverside County 
Special Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), Val 
Verde Unified School District and Mary McLeod 
Bethune Elementary School have access to 
a full complement of professional resources 
and services to meet the individual needs of its 
students with disabilities. SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATAQUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School and comparisons of the school to the district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest provides reports for school accountability, including 
but not limited to, CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout 
& Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing statistics
.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School™s SARC and access the internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries.  The closest library to Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School is 
Moreno Valley Public Library located at 25480 Alessandro Blvd., Moreno Valley, CA 92553.
Moreno Valley Public Library 
(951) 413-3880Hours: Monday-Thursday 9-8            Friday 9-6  
       Saturday 9-5            Sunday 12-5Number of computers available: 15 adult   computers and 10 children™s computers
Number of printers available: 1˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆ˙˘
˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
˜˜ˆ˝˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘–
ˇˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
ƒ

––‹
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

ˇ

ˆ†˝

ˆ˘ˇˇ
‘
’˘ˇ˝˜

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙˝
˙
ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙˙

˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ

Mary McLeod Bethune Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT EXPENDIT
URESSALARY & BUDGET COMPARI
SONState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state.EXPENDIT
URES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Ve
rde Unified School District spent an average of $11,189 
of total general funds to educate each student 
(based on 2017-18 audited financial statements 
and in accordance with calculations defined 
in Education Code §41372). The table in this 
report 1) compares the school™s per pupil 
expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and 
restricted (supplemental) sources with other 
schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the 
district and state levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at 
the CDE web site at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown 
in the table below reflect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, 
facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, 
state, and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Ongoing & Major Maintenance Account
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education









˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝˘
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ“
‘˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
‘’˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
š€
‡
‡
‡
‡
’˘ˇ˘—˝†˝˙˘–
ƒ€ƒƒ⁄
‡
‡
‡
‡
˘ˇ˘—ˇ–
‹€›−ƒ
š€
‰‹„


‘
‰−€⁄›š‰−€‰””ƒ••„‰”€•−ƒƒ•”„
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
