Avalon Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
AWARDS & HONORSDistinguished School Status Honored by:Ł City of Perris/Council for California   Distinguished SchoolsŁ Parents Rotary for California Distinguished    SchoolsŁ Jim Battin California Distinguished SchoolsVISION STATEMENT
Falcons on a quest for knowledge to attend 
college.DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in 
the heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 
72 miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the 
district and its communities are March Air Force 
Base and the Lake Perris recreational area.  
During the 2018-19 school year, the district™s 
schools served more than 20,200 students residing in the rural and suburban communities 
of Perris, Moreno Valley, and portions of 
unincorporated Riverside County.  The district 
currently operates a preschool, 12 elementary schools, 4 middle schools, 3 comprehensive 
high schools, a student success academy, 
a virtual academy, and a continuation high 
school.  During the 2018-19 school year, Avalon 
Elementary School served 608 students in grades K-5. Student enrollment included 11.5% 
in special education, 22.4% qualifying for 
English learner support and 77.6% qualifying 
for free or reduced-price meals. PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to Avalon 
Elementary School, home 
of the Falcons!  At Avalon 
we continue to create a 
foundation of excellence 
and to commit ourselves to high standards of teaching and learning.  Our teachers 
have made the transition to the California Common 
Core State Standards.  Our greatest commitment is to prepare our students 
for career and college readiness through STEAM 
and 21st Century Learning. This year we opened 
our new STEAM lab for project based learning 
and engineering.Avalon Elementary School is a California 
Distinguished School, California Gold Ribbon 
School and a Title 1 Academic Achieving School.  
In the spirit of continuous improvement, we focus 
our goals through the triangle of caring.  It takes 
the student, parents and the school to achieve 
exceptional results.  We are a professional 
learning community where staff, students, 
parents, and the community embrace the idea 
that together we can make a difference.
Avalon Elementary School provides quality 
programs to enrich the educational experience 
of our students.  Our staff is comprised 
of hardworking, dedicated professionals 
determined to make a positive impact on the 
lives of Avalon™s students.
We invite you to visit our campus.  You will see 
focused students determined to be their personal 
best.  Our students come first and we impart to them the importance of learning and being 
prepared for the 21st century.  We encourage 
them to set goals and always look toward the future. AVALON ELEMENTARY
 SCHOOL1815 East Rider Street, Perris, CA 92571
Phone: (951) 490-0360  Ł  Fax: (951) 490-0365Laura Pulido, Principal Ł lpulido@valverde.edu                        A California Distinguished School
2015 Title I Academic
Achievement Award
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘
˘’


˘
“š€

˘š
˘•
‡ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

‡

€˚ˇ„–

˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
ˇ˘
”ˇ
‚˙

‡ˇ™ˇ
”

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
2015-16 AVID 
School Award
ﬁFalcons on a quest for knowledge to attend college.ﬂCalifornia Gold Ribbon Award
2019 PBIS Silver Award
Avalon Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
The principal leads a highly qualified, 
professional team that delivers an educational 
program specially designed to meet the 
needs of all students. Rigorous academics 
and a positive school environment establish a 
solid foundation to maximize opportunities for 
learning. Avalon Elementary School™s Spread Your 
Wings campaign features structured lessons integrated into campus culture to increase student responsibility, respect, and safety.  
The school staff have evidenced a noticeable 
improvement in student behavior and a positive 
shift in school climate. Avalon holds PBIS 
(Positive Behavior Intervention & Support) 
training in morning meetings and conducts 30 
minutes of intervention on Wednesdays.
LOCAL CONTROL AND ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP). The following components of this 
SARC address some of the priorities identified 
in the District™s LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are 
appropriately assigned and fully credentialed 
in the subject areas and for the pupils they are 
teaching; pupils have access to standards-
aligned Instructional materials and school 
facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks 
chart; and School Facilities & Maintenance, 
including the Campus Description and School 
Facility Good Repair Status charts.Conditions of Learning (Implementation 
of State Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  
Implementation of academic content and 
performance standards adopted by the state 
board for all pupils.  Not covered in the School 
Accountability Report Card.Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts 
to seek parent input in decision making, 
promotion of parent participation in programs 
for unduplicated pupils and special need 
subgroups.  Covered in Parent Involvement.Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score 
on Academic Performance Index, share of 
pupils that are college and career ready, 
share of English learners that become English 
proficient, English learner reclassification rate, 
share of pupils that pass Advanced Placement 
exams with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils 
determined prepared for college by the Early 
Assessment Program.  Covered in California 
Assessment of Student Performance and Progress, including the CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State 
Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic 
absenteeism rates, middle school dropout rates, 
high school dropout rates, and high school 
graduation rates.   Covered in Dropout Rates, 
including the Dropout chart; and Graduation 
Rates, including the Graduation Rate chart for 
high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil 
suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, and 
parents and teachers on the sense of safety and school connectedness.  Covered in Discipline 
& Climate for Learning, including Suspension & 
Expulsion chart; and School Site Safety Plan.Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course of 
study that includes all of the subject areas.   Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in 
Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness 
Test chart.
PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to 
school and student success. Avalon Elementary 
School offers a wide variety of opportunities for 
parents to support the school and their child™s 
academic efforts. Parents who are interested in 
participating in any of the activities listed below 
or who would like additional information may 
contact their child™s teacher, the principal or the 
school office at (951) 490-0360.
Volunteer to Help:
Ł In the classroom and libraryŁ Chaperoning field tripsŁ With take-home projectsŁ With recognition awardsJoin Leadership Groups:Ł English Learner Advisory Council
Ł District Advisory Council
Ł GATE Advisory Committee 
  (Gifted & Talented Education)
Ł Parent Teacher Student Organization
Ł Parent Advisory Committee (PAC)
Ł School Advisory Council
Ł School Site CouncilŁ South West African American Achievement 
  CommitteeAttend Special Events & Workshops
Ł Avalon Grows Family Learning Night
Ł AVID Workshops
Ł Back to School NightŁ CAASPP Night
   
Ł Extracurricular Academic Events/
  CompetitionsŁ Family Movie NightŁ Family Music PicnicŁ Family NightsŁ Family Valentine Dance
Ł Kings CourtŁ Morning Walks
Ł Parent ConferencesŁ Parent Education Workshops 
Ł STEAM NightŁ Student PerformancesŁ Student Recognition Assemblies and Events
School-to-home communication is provided in 
both English and Spanish. The principal issues 
a school newsletter once every trimester; 
the newsletter features valuable information 
on school policy changes, special events, 
announcements, and helpful student/parent 
tips. TeleParent is an Internet-based automated 
parental notification system that forwards 
personalized messages from school staff 
to each student™s home. Other resources of 
information include:Ł District & School Facebook pageŁ Flyers and lettersŁ PTO Facebook, Instagram & Twitter
Ł School marqueeŁ School and district websitesŁ Twitter, Instagram & Facebook
Ł PeachJarŁ Val Verde App
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT BENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student learning. District benchmark assessments 
supplement multiple measures of assessment 
to identify students™ mastery of content, depth 
of knowledge, and skills. District benchmark 
assessments are aligned to the California State 
Standards and are comprised of both formative and summative assessments given in math, reading, and language arts. During the 2018-
19 school year, all students in grades 1-5 were 
assessed multiple times utilizing a system of 
short-cycle formative assessments to identify content area mastery and specific gaps in the 
learning process.  Students in grades 7-12 
were evaluated quarterly throughout the year to 
determine course grades and levels of content 
mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used to 
identify student progress, understanding of 
state content standards, and mastery of subject area matter/concepts. These measures include: 
state summative assessments, benchmark assessments, grade level/department common 
assessments, classroom observations, teacher-
created assessments, adaptive diagnostic 
assessments in reading and math, and early 
indicators of reading assessments. Collectively, 
the benchmark assessments and multiple 
measures aid teachers in 1) identifying areas 
where instruction may or may not be effective; 
2) guiding classroom instruction practices 
and strategies; and 3) identifying students who need targeted academic assistance or intervention. Teachers and administrators are 
able to pinpoint any deficiencies or gaps in the 
learning process, identifying very specific skill 
sets and subject area content that needs to be 
retaught, reinforced, or revised to ensure every 
student obtains a solid foundation for future 
success in learning. CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESSThe California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education population, and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students 
with the most significant cognitive disabilities.  
Only eligible students may participate in the 
Avalon Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘


˘
••••••••••••••••••••‘˚
••••••••••••••••••••…ˆˆ—˝˛


–˛


˜⁄˚ˆˆ‹


˝˙˙›ˆ−˝˘˛



ˇƒˆ


˛ˆ⁄˛ƒˆ−˛


‘˛ˆ”ƒ
••••••••••••••••••••˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
†˚˛ˆ˘
““‘
˜
administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which 
are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of 
how well students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 
student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and 
performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which 
are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown 
only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the 
California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, Avalon Elementary School is required by the state to administer 
a physical fitness test to all students in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test measures each 
student™s ability to complete six fitness tasks in six major areas. Students that either meet or exceed 
the standards in all six fitness areas are considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness 
zone.ﬂ Comparative district and state results can be found at the CDE™s website www.cde.ca.gov/
ta/tg/pf/.  SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEAvalon Elementary School provides a safe, 
clean environment for learning through proper 
facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Original school buildings were constructed in 
2005; ongoing maintenance ensures school 
facilities are kept safe and in good working 
condition and continue to provide adequate 
space for students and staff. 
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Installation of cattle gatesŁ Remodeling projects to the office
Ł Upgrades to the parking lotŁ Addition of asphalt, fencing, flooring, window 
  shades, and gutters where neededŁ Painting projects where needed2019-20 Campus Improvements in Progress:Ł Installation of a shade structure in the lunch   area˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ
˚˛˝˚˚
Avalon Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SUPERVISION AND SAFETYDesignated teachers, administrators, and 
two supervision aides are stationed at main 
entrance areas and on the playground to 
supervise students before classes begin. 
During recess and lunch, five supervision aides monitor student behavior and activities 
in the cafeteria and on the playground. When 
students are dismissed at the end of the day, 
teachers and the principal escort students to 
exit areas monitored by assigned staff to ensure 
a safe and orderly departure.  Teachers and the 
principal remain on campus until all students 
have left campus.  Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain 
a safe and secure environment, all parents and visitors are required to check in at the 
school office upon arrival and present valid 
picture identification, obtain and wear a visitor™s 
badge, and then return to the school office upon 
departure. SCHOOL INSPECTIONSAvalon Elementary School and the Val Verde 
Unified School District™s Maintenance and 
Operations Department (M&O) work together 
to ensure student safety and uphold high 
cleaning standards. M&O supervisors and 
school administration inspect facilities on a 
continual basis to identify and resolve concerns 
in a proactive and timely manner. The most 
recent facilities inspection at Avalon Elementary 
School took place on July 16, 2019. Schools are 
required by state law to report the condition of 
their facilities; the School Facility Good Repair Status table illustrated in this report  identifies the state-required inspection areas and 
discloses the operational status in each of those 
areas. During fiscal year 2019-20, all restrooms 
were fully functional and available for student 
use at the time of the inspection.SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for Avalon Elementary School in 
collaboration with local agencies and the district 
office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 requirements.  
The Val Verde Unified School District partners 
with Hour-Zero for school emergency response 
planning, management, consulting, and training. 
Hour-Zero specialists support district and 
school staff with the ongoing development of 
a comprehensive emergency preparedness 
program to address critical components of emergency response planning and compliance 
with federal and state requirements.as trash and debris removal, landscaping care, 
irrigation system maintenance, and playing field 
maintenance. Each custodian is provided one week of 
intensive training upon employment.  Thereafter, 
training is coordinated by district maintenance 
supervisors and custodial staff meetings are 
held twice annually. Training activities in use 
of equipment and safety procedures are led 
by district risk management representatives, 
vendors, and department supervisors. The 
district™s Operations Supervisor visits Avalon 
Elementary School monthly to review custodial 
performance, discuss campus maintenance needs with the principal, evaluate conditions of 
the school facility, and follow up on outstanding 
work order requests.CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGA safe, clean school and an effective learning 
program provide the basis for Avalon 
Elementary School™s discipline program. School 
staff support an environment that teaches 
students, through the daily curriculum, the skills 
to resolve conflicts and take responsibility for 
their decisions. The schoolwide discipline plan 
focuses on a positive approach to managing 
disruptive behavior; students are given the 
opportunity to learn from their mistakes and take responsibility in making good choices in 
an effort to take an active role in changing their 
behavior.
Avalon Elementary School utilizes both the 
OLWEUS Bully Prevention Program and the 
Positive Behavior Intervention and Support 
system.  The OLWEUS bully prevention 
program is a preventative program which requires active participation from all members 
of our school community.  It is designed for all 
students and is preventative and responsive 
to any and all acts of bullying.  The Positive 
Behavior Support System will be integrated 
with OLWEUS bully prevention program.  
Through the Positive Behavior Support System, 
our school community will provide intentional 
structures for student success through positive 
behavior expectations. In the mornings Avalon 
holds PBIS meetings to go over strategies.Components of Avalon Elementary™s School 
safety plan include child abuse reporting 
procedures, teacher notification of dangerous 
pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, 
procedures for safe arrival and departure from 
school, sexual harassment policy, dress code 
policy, and bully prevention policy. The school™s 
most current safety plan was reviewed, updated, 
and shared with school staff in March 2019.
MAINTENANCE & REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance department work together to ensure 
playing fields, classrooms, and campus grounds 
are well-maintained and kept safe and functioning 
for students, staff, and visitors. Maintenance 
and Operations (M&O) continues to employ 
an electronic work order process to facilitate and improve services to Avalon Elementary 
School.  Teachers, the custodian, and school 
staff communicate unscheduled maintenance 
needs, urgent repairs, or special projects to office 
support staff who prepare and submit work orders 
to M&O for resolution. Emergency situations 
are immediately resolved either by the school 
custodian or district maintenance staff.   
DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time lead day custodian, one full-time 
evening custodian, and two groundskeepers are 
assigned to Avalon Elementary School and work 
closely with the principal for routine maintenance, 
daily custodial duties, and special events. The 
principal and custodians communicate daily 
to discuss campus cleaning needs and safety 
concerns. Every morning before school begins, the custodian inspects facilities for safety 
hazards, graffiti, and other conditions that require  
immediate attention or removal prior to students 
and staff entering school grounds. 
Custodians are responsible for cleaning campus 
grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and common 
areas to ensure facilities remain in good working condition, clean, and safe for students, staff, 
and visitors.  The custodians check restrooms 
after recesses and lunch, and between classes 
as a proactive measure to keep restrooms fully 
stocked, safe, and sanitary. The custodians are 
required to subsequently document restroom 
inspections in their daily inspection log. All 
custodians follow approved district standards 
and procedures for routine custodial functions and campus maintenance. The groundskeeper is 
on campus once a week and is responsible for 
general gardening and maintenance work such 
˜˚˛˝˙˜ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘




ˇ˙˛
˜˚ˇ˘˙˛
˘˚˙˛˛
˙ˆˇ˘ˆ
˙˛ˇ˛˚˛
˙ˇ
ˇˇ
†ˇ



“‘
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝ˇˆˆ
˘˘ˇ˘
˝
˛˘˝ˇˆˆˇ˘
˛˝˝˛˘˚
˛˘˚ˇ
˘˙ˇ
˛˘˙˙˙
ˆ˙˙˙ˆ
’šš˘ˆ˘˛ˆ•š
…˘˛ˇ˘
–•ƒ⁄š…˛ˇˆ˙˘˘ˇ˘˙˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝
ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝˙˛††˝†
˙˚˙˛††˝†
˙’˚†˝†˙š†˙ˇ†˚€
††
˙—˛‘
—˘‘˝˛˝
…˘–ˇ˝˚˙’
˙
•ƒ˚˝˙⁄‹˙’
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
Avalon Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement activities at Val Verde Unified School District 
are aligned to the California State Standards. 
The district™s Educational Services Department 
selects staff development concentrations based 
on principal surveys, teacher input, subject area 
coordinator input, California State Standards, 
district benchmark assessment results, and state standardized test results. During the 2018-
19 school year, Avalon Elementary School held 
staff development training focused on:
Ł Advancement Via Individual Determination 
  (AVID)
Ł California Common Core State StandardsŁ E-LearningŁ Google SuiteŁ Intervention ProgramsŁ Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł Professional Learning Communities (PLC)Ł Reading StrategiesŁ Response to Intervention (RtI)Ł SBAC Training
Ł STEAM Training
Ł Student Engagement StrategiesŁ Technology Training
Ł Test Preparation Strategies
Ł Text Dependent Questions
Ł Visual and Performing Arts
During the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 
school years, Val Verde Unified School District 
provided professional development on the 
following topics:Students are actively involved in learning acceptable standards of behavior through the Spread 
Your Wings program. Teachers deliver planned lessons on rules and procedures which apply to 
each area of the campus such as the classroom, cafeteria, and playground. Students meet with 
a mentoring group weekly and are recognized and rewarded with wings cards for demonstrating 
outstanding behavior and making good choices in challenging situations. Students may redeem 
their winga cards for prizes and participate in recognition assemblies.School and classroom rules are posted in each classroom. At the beginning of the school year, 
school rules, district policies, and academic expectations are (1) outlined in the ﬁParent/Student 
Handbookﬂ (provided in both English and Spanish), (2) shared by teachers as part of the classroom 
orientation process, and (3) reinforced at Behavior Expectation Assemblies held each trimester. 
Parents can go online to view dress code policies, attendance policies, and behavior policies; 
parents are requested to sign an acknowledgement form to confirm receipt. School staff remind 
students individually and at assemblies throughout the year to conduct themselves in a safe, 
responsible, and courteous manner.  Occasionally, the principal will visit classrooms to reinforce 
behavior expectations.Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the classroom when students are disruptive or 
demonstrating poor citizenship. When students continue having difficulty following school rules, 
teachers refer the student to the principal for further intervention. Consequences and disciplinary 
action are based upon the student™s past behavioral trend and severity of infraction. Discipline 
measures are consistently applied in a fair and firm manner. 
Students demonstrating outstanding academic effort and citizenship qualify for selection as the 
Student of the Month.  Throughout the year, students ﬁdemonstarte their Falcon valuesﬂ by school 
staff receive wings cards. At the end of each grading period, school assemblies are held to honor 
students meeting behavior, academic, Accelerated Reader, and attendance goals; awards include 
Principal™s Honor Roll, Falcon Honor Roll, Perfect Attendance, Citizenship, Amazing Progress, and 
AVID Scholar.
CLASS SIZEThe Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each 
grade level, the average class size, and the number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-
32 students, and 33 or more students.ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESStudents are given many opportunities to participate in extracurricular activities that develop 
and promote individual interests outside the core 
curriculum. Extracurricular/enrichment activities 
offered at Avalon Elementary School include:
Ł 100 Mile ClubŁ Associate Student Body (ASB)
Ł AVID Scholars
Ł Field tripsŁ Garden ClubŁ Gifted & Talented Education
Ł Love ClubŁ Mentorship ProgramŁ Peace PatrolŁ Robotics ClubŁ Science & Engineering FairŁ Sign Language ClubŁ Sports (Basketball, Track, Softball & Soccer)
Ł STEAM ClubŁ Talent Show
Ł Visual and Performing Arts
˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝
˜˝˜˙
˛˝
˘˙˝˜˙
˘˝˜˘
˝˜˘
˝˜
ˇ˝
˜˝
˘˛˝
˘˙˝
˘˘˝˜˙
˝˛˘
˝˜
ˇ˝
˜˝˜˙
˛˝˛˙
˙˝˛˙
˘˝˜˙
˝
˘˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ


˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝



†
‘’š

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛



˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
Avalon Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 
and to take home, 2) sufficient textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English learners, that are 
aligned to the academic content standards and 
are consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks in mathematics, science, history-social science, and English/
language arts, including the English language 
development component of an adopted program, 
3) sufficient textbooks or instructional materials 
were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign 
language or health classes, and 4) sufficient 
laboratory science equipment was available for 
science laboratory classes offered in grades 
9-12 inclusive. Within a six-week period prior to 
adoption, parents may preview recommended 
instructional materials at the district office or the 
school™s office. 
In addition to the core subject areas, districts 
are required to disclose in their SARCs the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for 
its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 
2019-20 school year, Val Verde Unified School 
District certifies that each student, including 
English learners, enrolled in a visual/performing 
arts class has been provided with a textbook 
or supplemental materials to use in class and 
to take home. These materials comply with the 
California State Standards.SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Avalon Elementary is a 
responsibility shared among the principal, 
teachers, and parents. The principal is 
responsible for the day-to-day operations and 
overall curriculum. The school™s leadership 
team, grade level teams, math coaches, NGSS coaches, program facilitators, English 
Learner Advisory Council (ELAC), and School 
Site Council share in the decision-making and 
administrative processes to create an effective, 
safe, and nurturing learning environment.The school™s leadership team is comprised of 
teacher leaders who support their team members through modeling of effective lessons and best 
instructional process. Avalon Elementary has a 
Grade Share Leadership Team and a Response 
to Intervention (RtI) Leadership Team. The teams 
meet monthly to collaboratively address teaching 
and learning practices as well as overall student 
needs linked to the outcome of assessments. Team members are responsible for supporting 
the principal in leading program implementation 
within their areas of responsibility and serving as 
a liaison to their respective teams.During the 2019-20 school year, teachers 
also had the opportunity to participate in the 
following professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes 
new teachers and provides intensive training 
to help them experience success in their 
new classrooms. For ongoing professional 
guidance, the district supports new and veteran 
teachers in developing their teaching skills. The 
California Teachers Induction (CTID) program, 
a state-sponsored program, is designed for 
first- and second-year credentialed teachers 
and provides skills assistance over a two-year period. The Peer Assistance and Review 
program is designed to improve the education 
of students and increase the classroom 
performance of teachers, targeting both new 
and veteran teachers. Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. 
New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/
teacher leaders, administrators, and support staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the district and Riverside County Office of Education. Professional and subject-
specific offerings are consistent with the 
California State Standards. Special education staff, resource specialist 
staff, bilingual aides, and instructional aides 
receive customized training to support the 
district™s educational programs and develop 
strategies to increase effectiveness in teaching 
practices. Classified support staff receive job-
related training from department supervisors 
and district representatives; training activities 
and workshops are designed to enhance and 
extend job performance. Long-term substitute teachers may be encouraged to participate 
in site-sponsored activities to enhance 
their understanding of Val Verde Unified 
School District™s curriculum and classroom 
management practices.INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Val Verde Unified School District 
are being aligned to the California State 
Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected from the state™s most recent 
list of standards-based materials and adopted 
by the State Board of Education. Instructional 
materials for grades 9-12 are standards-
based and approved by the district™s Board of 
Education.  On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified 
School District™s Board of Education held a 
public hearing to certify the extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Board of Education 
adopted Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies 
as required by Education Code §60119 1) that 
textbooks and instructional materials were 
provided to all students, including English 
learners, in the district to the extent that each 
pupil has a standards-aligned textbook or 
The School Site Council (SSC), consisting of 
school staff and parents, is a major governing 
body that meets monthly to address school 
programs, discuss progress in meeting school goals, and serve as a liaison between the community and school administration. On 
an annual basis, the SSC is responsible for 
reviewing and approving the school site plan, 
safety plan, and budget.SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the 
California State Standards and approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every child receives 
a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned 
core program. Avalon Elementary School 
structures its educational program so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their 
learning level. To ensure the success of every 
student, teachers use a variety of instructional 
techniques using research-based instructional 
materials and strategies.SPECIAL EDUCATIONSpecial education students are mainstreamed into the general education classroom based 
upon their IEP (Individual Education Plan) 
and provided instruction in the least restrictive 
environment. Avalon Elementary™s special 
education program is staffed by two special 
education teachers and two special education 
aides who work collaboratively with general 
education teachers to provide instruction in alignment with each student™s IEP as well as 
state standards. The special education program 
utilizes a team-oriented approach among special 
education and general education teachers to provide maximum levels of instruction in the 
general education environment. For a portion 
of the regular school day, students may receive 
individual and/or small group instruction from 
special education staff in the Learning Center. 
District Program Specialists meet with special 
education teachers regularly to provide support 
and assistance in developing instructional 
schedules and utilizing staff resources.
Each student is provided instruction based 
upon their IEP, which is reviewed and updated 
annually by the school™s IEP teams. The IEP 
ensures that students with disabilities have 
equal access to core curriculum and educational 
opportunities and is used to coordinate specially-
designed instruction based upon individual academic, social, and behavioral needs.  ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚ˆ˘ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘
˙ˇˇ˚˛ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙ˇ˚ˆ˙
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘˘˘

“ˆ
“˘“ˆ
˙˘
‘ˆ’
ˇ˘“ˆˇ
˘˘ˇ˘
‡˘˘…
‘ˇˇˆ—ˇ˘
˘ƒ˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘⁄˘˘
›˘“ˆ˘
‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‰ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ
Avalon Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of Avalon Elementary™s teachers are certified 
and trained to provide instruction for students 
identified as English Learners (EL). Beginning 
level EL students receive English Language 
Development (ELD) instruction by their class 
teacher for 30 minutes a day as a supplement to their regular language arts curriculum. Using 
specially-designed McGraw-Hill 
Wonders materials, ELD instruction focuses on reading development, verbal language development, 
and vocabulary building. One bilingual aide 
collaborates with class teachers to provide 
small group and individual support in and 
outside the general education classroom based upon student needs. As students increase 
fluency in the English language, Avalon 
Elementary School continues to monitor student 
performance through ELPAC results, benchmark 
assessments, and classroom observation to adjust instruction as needed to ensure continued 
success in acquiring the English language and 
proficiency in reading/language arts.  GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONAvalon Elementary School offers a Gifted and 
Talented Education (GATE) program for students 
who have been recognized as high achievers 
by their teachers and through district testing. 
GATE students are clustered by grade level to 
receive accelerated, differentiated instruction 
which offers more depth and complexity 
throughout the curriculum. GATE students are 
invited to participate in structured, during-school 
enrichment activities which include art, science, 
project based learning, STEAM projects, and 
guest presentations. The GATE team is working together to create a 
Self-Guided Learning program in which students 
are given the opportunity to 21st century skills within the core subject areas.  Planning time 
includes integration of the 4 C™s into everyday 
lessons for students. Teachers are incorporating 
instructional time that includes collaboration and 
communication to encourage students to have 
a voice in their education.  Teachers use Inquiry 
Based lessons to build and promote critical 
thinking in our students. They are using five TV™s 
in their classroom to help with collaboration.  
Avalon Elementary School where thought is 
taught. INTERVENTION PROGRAMSAvalon Elementary School supports intervention 
programs through its extended day learning 
academy offered before and after school to 
meet the needs of those kindergarten students 
not meeting state proficiency standards in 
reading, language arts, and math. Educational 
Management Teams comprised of school 
administrators, teachers, and parents work together to identify individualized intervention 
strategies for and monitor progress of students 
having difficulty with academic or social 
development. Formal intervention programs 
include:Ł Think Together: voluntary after-school 
program provided five days a week. Students 
are engaged in a highly structured program 
that provides standards-based homework 
assistance, tutoring, and sports. The program is 
offered daily after school until 6:00 p.m.
Ł Impact Substitute Teachers (two): substitute teachers in the morning and in the afternoon provides 
support to regular classroom teachers who conduct small group intervention in reading and math.Ł Impact Tutors: Assigned to K-2 teachers
Ł Kindergarten Extended Day: kindergarten students who are performing below grade level 
standards in reading and math, based upon assessment data, receive one hour of instruction and 
intervention support after school.Ł 95% Group Intervention Program: embedded into the regular language arts and math curricula, 
students participate in iStation exams as they progress through their lessons. Teachers use iStation 
results to pinpoint student skill deficits, sequence skill instruction, and provide differentiated small-
group intervention using specific intervention materials to address specific skill sets. Intervention 
performed by IMPACT subs in small groups use 95% materials.
PROFESSIONAL STAFFTEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, Avalon Elementary School had 23 teachers who met all credential 
requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number of 
teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total 
teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the 
number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal authorization to teach that grade level, subject 
area, student group, etc.SUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, 
nurses, health technicians, and special education 
service providers. Through close collaboration, 
this expert team is instrumental in improving student attendance and achievement through the 
identification, referral, and remediation of health 
and/or emotional concerns. The psychologist assists with academic, social, 
and emotional issues; provides assessments to determine eligibility for Special Education services; 
and facilitates coordination of Individual Education 
Plans (IEP).  The school nurse conducts health 
screening programs. Health technicians provide 
basic aid. As a participating member of the 
Riverside County Special Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), Val Verde Unified School District 
and Avalon Elementary School have access 
to a full complement of professional resources 
and services to meet the individual needs of its 
students with disabilities. COMM
UNITY PARTNERSHIPSAvalon Elementary School™s programs are strongly supported through generous contributions from 
local agencies and community organizations.  Staff and students are grateful for the sponsorship of:
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˘
ˆˆ˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
ˆ˜ˆ˝˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘–
ˇˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
‘ƒ
––⁄
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˘ˇ˝˜

˜

˝ˇ
†“ˇ
’
ˆ†˘ˇˇ
š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙˝
˙
ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙˙

˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ

˝
Ł BJ™s Restaurant
Ł Cold Stone CreameryŁ Farmer BoysŁ Food 4 LessŁ Jason™s Deli
Ł John™s Incredible Pizza
Ł Marine InstituteŁ Papa John™s Pizza
Ł Parent Teacher Organization
Ł Pizza FactoryŁ Shakey™s Pizza
Ł SizzlerŁ StaplesŁ StarbucksŁ Wayfair
Avalon Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card









˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
“‘’š€




†˘ˇ˘‡˝˙˘…
š“—



˘ˇ˘‡–ˇ…
“‘ƒ€⁄
“‘š’‹
€›−
’‘“‰’
’‰−

€⁄‘“›“⁄‹‘⁄ƒƒ——’−⁄ƒ‘‰‹——ƒ‰−
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATAQUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about Avalon Elementary 
School and comparisons of the school to the district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest 
provides reports for school accountability, 
including but not limited to, CAASPP results, 
Physical Fitness results, Suspensions and 
Expulsions, Dropout & Graduation Rates, 
enrollment, and staffing statistics.
PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access Avalon Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries or the 
school™s library.  The closest library to Avalon 
Elementary School is Perris Branch Public 
Library located at 163 E. San Jacinto  Avenue, 
Perris, CA 92570.
Perris Branch Public Library Ł (951) 657-2358Hours: Sunday 1-5           Monday 10 -6           Tuesday-Wednesday 12-8
           Thursday-Saturday 10-6
Number of computers available: 14 Number of printers available: 1Avalon Elementary School Library
Availability: Parents may visit the library in the 
  mornings on school daysNumber of computers available: 3Number of mini laptops available: 5   Number of printers available: 1DISTRICT EXPENDIT
URESSALARY & BUDGET COMPARI
SONState law requires comparative salary and budget 
information to be reported to the general public. 
For comparison purposes, the State Department 
of Education has provided average salary data 
from school districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state.EXPEN
SITURES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Verde Unified 
School District spent an average of $11,189 of 
total general funds to educate each student (based 
on 2017-18 audited financial statements and in 
accordance with calculations defined in Education Code §41372). The table in this report 1) compares 
the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted 
(basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary 
at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information 
regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/
ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect the direct cost of 
educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and 
certain other expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, 
state, and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Ongoing & Major Maintenance Account
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
