Manuel L. Real Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, school districts are required to develop, 
adopt, and annually update a three-year Local 
Control and Accountability Plan (LCAP). The 
following components of this SARC address 
some of the priorities identified in the District™s 
LCAP:Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are 
appropriately assigned and fully credentialed 
in the subject areas and for the pupils they are 
teaching; pupils have access to standards-aligned Instructional materials and school facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks 
chart; and School Facilities & Maintenance, 
including the Campus Description and School 
Facility Good Repair Status charts.Conditions of Learning (Implementation of State 
Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  Implementation of 
academic content and performance standards 
adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to Manuel L. Real 
Elementary. Our school is 
committed to providing all 
students a solid foundation 
of academic and social skills 
that will empower them to become lifelong 
learners and contributing members of society. We 
achieve this commitment through research-based 
academic and social instructional practices, on-
going assessments, differentiated instruction, 
the use of technology, project based learning, 
and a safe and healthy school environment in partnership with staff, students, and parents. The 
instruction and experiences provided for students 
are built on the California Common Core State 
Standards. We want our students to take an 
active role in their education and strive towards 
excellence. Staff members work collaboratively 
to guide each child through a rigorous curriculum built on a foundation of high expectations and a 
love for learning.
We welcome the community to visit and become 
more involved with the academic success of our 
students. Our school is a special place and we 
look forward in sharing the successes our staff 
and parents make happen for our students.
DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in 
the heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 72 
miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the district 
and its communities are March Air Force Base 
and the Lake Perris recreational area.  During 
the 2018-19 school year, the district™s schools 
served more than 20,200 students residing in 
the rural and suburban communities of Perris, 
Moreno Valley, and portions of unincorporated 
Riverside County.  The district currently operates 
a preschool, 12 elementary schools, 4 middle 
schools, 3 comprehensive high schools, a student 
success academy, a virtual academy, and a 
continuation high school.  
During the 2018-19 school year, Manuel L. 
Real Elementary School served 612 students in 
grades TK-5. Student enrollment included 11.6% 
receiving special education services, 52.5% 
qualifying for English Learner support, and 95.1% 
qualifying for free or reduced-price meals.  
MANUEL L. 
REAL ELEMENTARY
 SCHOOL19150 Clark Street, Perris, CA 92570
Phone: (951) 940-8520FAX: (951) 940-8525
Ricardo Rincon, Principal                                     
Email: rrincon@valverde.edu˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘
“†˘†


˘‘
“’š

˘€
˘
‡ˇˇ
…˚˙

–ˇƒ˙ˇ⁄
˜‹ˇ
›

—ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ–˚—ˇ
−˙

‡

š˚ˇ‰—

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
„ˇ
”˙


‡ˇ‚ˇ
„

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
Manuel L. Real Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts 
to seek parent input in decision making, 
promotion of parent participation in programs 
for unduplicated pupils and special need 
subgroups.  Covered in Parent Involvement.Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score on 
Academic Performance Index, share of pupils 
that are college and career ready, share of 
English learners that become English proficient, 
English learner reclassification rate, share of 
pupils that pass Advanced Placement exams 
with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils determined 
prepared for college by the Early Assessment 
Program.  Covered in California Assessment of 
Student Performance and Progress, including 
the CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State 
Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic 
absenteeism rates, middle school dropout rates, 
high school dropout rates, and high school graduation rates.   Covered in Dropout Rates, 
including the Dropout chart; and Graduation 
Rates, including the Graduation Rate chart for 
high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil 
suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, and 
parents and teachers on the sense of safety and 
school connectedness.  Covered in Discipline 
& Climate for Learning, including Suspension & 
Expulsion chart; and School Site Safety Plan.Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course 
of study that includes all of the subject areas.   
Not covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil 
outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness 
Test chart.
PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to 
school and student success.  Manuel L. Real 
Elementary School offers a wide variety of 
opportunities for parents to support the school 
and their child™s academic efforts. Parents 
seeking more information or who are interested 
in participating in any of the activities listed 
below may call the school office or their child™s 
teacher at (951) 940-
 8520.Volunteer to Help
Ł In classrooms, library, and school office
Ł Fundraising
Join Leadership GroupsŁ District Advisory Council (Title I)
Ł School Site CouncilŁ Parent Advisory Committee
Ł English Learner Advisory Council
Ł Parent Teacher Organization (PTO)
Attend Special Events & Workshops
Ł Back to School NightŁ Holiday ProgramsŁ Award Assemblies
Ł Math Homework Workshops
Ł Parent ConferencesŁ Parent Education Workshops
Ł Parent Math, Reading & Writing Nights
Ł Science NightSchool-to-home communication is provided 
in both English and Spanish.  Manuel L. Real Elementary sends home a monthly calendar highlighting school events and important 
dates. Parents have access to the internet in 
the library by Chromebooks. School staff will 
call a student™s home when direct contact is 
necessary. Peach Jar and Blackboard Connect 
are used to generate student-specific or general 
telephone messages through an automated 
system. The district website is an excellent 
resource for general information (www.valverde.
edu) as well as the school™s website (https://
manuelreal.valverde.edu). The school™s digital 
marquee displays current announcements and 
reminders. Parents can have access to their student™s information thru the new Val Verde app 
for cell phones.
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT BENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student 
learning. District benchmark assessments 
supplement multiple measures of assessment 
to identify students™ mastery of content, depth 
of knowledge, and skills. District benchmark 
assessments are aligned to the California State 
Standards and are comprised of both formative 
and summative assessments given in math, 
reading, and language arts. During the 2018-
19 school year, all students in grades 1-5 were 
assessed multiple times utilizing a system of 
short-cycle formative assessments to identify content area mastery and specific gaps in the learning process.  Students in grades 7-12 
were evaluated quarterly throughout the year to 
determine course grades and levels of content 
mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used 
to identify student progress, understanding of 
state content standards, and mastery of subject 
area matter/concepts. These measures include: 
state summative assessments, benchmark assessments, grade level/department common 
assessments, classroom observations, teacher-
created assessments, adaptive diagnostic 
assessments in reading and math, and early 
indicators of reading assessments. Collectively, 
the benchmark assessments and multiple 
measures aid teachers in 1) identifying areas where instruction may or may not be effective; 
2) guiding classroom instruction practices and 
strategies; and 3) identifying students who need 
targeted academic assistance or intervention. 
Teachers and administrators are able to 
pinpoint any deficiencies or gaps in the learning 
process, identifying very specific skill sets and 
subject area content that needs to be retaught, reinforced, or revised to ensure every student obtains a solid foundation for future success in 
learning.PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, Manuel L. Real 
Elementary School is required by the state to 
administer a physical fitness test to all students 
in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test 
measures each student™s ability to complete six 
fitness tasks in six major areas. Students that 
either meet or exceed the standards in all six 
fitness areas are considered to be physically 
fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative 
district and state results can be found at the CDE™s web site www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESSThe California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education population, and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students 
with the most significant cognitive disabilities.  
Only eligible students may participate in the 
administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are 
aligned with alternative achievement standards, 
which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a 
measure of how well students are mastering 
California™s standards in English language arts/
literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given 
to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance 
in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing 
computer-adaptive tests and performance 
tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with 
alternative achievement standards which are 
linked with the Common Core State Standards 
(CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, district and state scores as well as the school™s 
overall score in each applicable subgroup. 
Results are shown only for subgroups with 
ten students or more taking the exam. For 
those categories that are blank in the tables, 
no students met subgroup criteria. More 
information on CAASPP can be found on the 
California Department of Education™s website 
www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/
.  Manuel L. Real Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛
†ˆ“
‘
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˚˘˚˛
““‘
˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••˝˘ˆ‡˘˘ˆ˚šˆ˝˛
••••••••••••••••••••˘
••••••••••••••••••••‘˚
••••••••••••••••••••–ˆˆƒ˝˛˘˚


⁄˛
••••••••••••••••••••˜›˚ˆˆ−
••••••••••••••••••••˝˙˙‰ˆ„˝˘˛



ˇ‹ˆ


˛ˆ›˛‹ˆ„˛


‘˛ˆ‚‹
••••••••••••••••••••˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘

“˘
‘’š€‘˝•
SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEManuel L. Real Elementary School provides a safe, clean environment for learning through proper 
facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Original school buildings were constructed in 1997; 
ongoing maintenance ensures school facilities are kept safe and in good working condition and 
continue to provide adequate space for students and staff. 
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Painting to the exterior of the campus2019-20 Campus Improvements in Progress:Ł Parking lot entrance expanded by 12 feetŁ Expansion of blacktop area with solar panelsŁ Removal of wallpaper and re-paintingŁ Remodel libraryŁ Addition of touchscreen TVs displays in every classroom
SUPERVISION & SAFETYAs a component of the school™s secure campus 
policy, school facilities are fully enclosed with 
a perimeter fence system. Only students are 
allowed to travel in and out of entrance gates; 
parents and guardians must enter the campus 
through the school™s main office.
Each morning as students arrive on campus, the principal, crossing guards, teachers, and 
a morning supervision aide are strategically 
stationed at the entrance gates and student 
drop-off area, in the breakfast area, and on the 
playground to monitor activities and behavior. 
During recess, supervision aides monitor 
students on the playground. During lunch period, supervision aides are responsible for 
monitoring student behavior and activities in 
the cafeteria and on the playground. When 
students are dismissed at the end of the day, 
teachers escort their students to the designated exit gates to ensure students depart in a safe 
and orderly manner. Crossing guards monitor 
students departure while leaving the school 
campus.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝
ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝˙†˛““˝“
˙˚˙†˛““˝“
˙š˚“˝“˙€“˙ˇ“
•˙““
˙–˛’
–˘’˝˛˝
—˘ƒˇ˝˚˙š
˙
‡⁄˚˝˙‹›˙š
—ˇ“˘˙š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
Manuel L. Real Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain a 
safe and secure environment, all parents and visitors are required to check in at the school 
office upon arrival and present valid picture 
identification, obtain and wear a visitor™s badge, 
and then return to the school office upon 
departure. Parents can now utilize the Raptor 
System to allow them to visit the school site.
SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for Manuel L. Real Elementary School in collaboration with local agencies 
and the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 
requirements.  The Val Verde Unified School 
District partners with Hour-Zero for school emergency response planning, management, 
consulting, and training. Hour-Zero  specialists support district and school staff with the 
ongoing development of a comprehensive 
emergency preparedness program to address 
critical components of emergency response 
planning and compliance with federal and state 
requirements.Components of Manuel L. Real Elementary™s 
school safety plan include child abuse 
reporting procedures, teacher notification of 
dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response 
procedures, procedures for safe arrival and 
departure from school, sexual harassment 
policy, dress code policy, and bully prevention 
policy. The school™s most current safety plan 
will be reviewed, updated, and discussed with school staff in November 2019.
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance department work together to 
ensure playing fields, classrooms, and campus 
grounds are well-maintained and kept safe 
and functioning for students, staff, and visitors. 
Maintenance and Operations (M&O) continues 
to employ an electronic work order process to 
facilitate and improve services to Manuel L. 
Real Elementary School.  Teachers and school 
staff communicate unscheduled maintenance 
needs, urgent repairs, or special projects to the 
school secretary who prepares and submits 
work orders to M&O for resolution. Emergency situations are immediately resolved either by 
the school custodian or district maintenance staff.   
SCHOOL INSPECTIONSManuel L. Real Elementary School and the Val 
Verde Unified School District™s Maintenance and 
Operations Department (M&O) work together 
to maintain high levels of student safety and 
campus cleanliness. M&O supervisors and 
school administration inspect facilities on a 
continual basis to identify and resolve concerns 
in a proactive and timely manner. The most 
recent facilities inspection at Manuel L. Real 
Elementary School took place on July 15, 2019. 
Schools are required by state law to report the 
condition of their facilities; the School Facilities 
Good Repair Status table illustrated in this report 
identifies the state-required inspection areas and 
discloses the operational status in each of those 
areas. During fiscal year 2019-20, all restrooms 
were fully functional and available for student 
use at the time of the inspection
.CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGStudents at Manuel L. Real Elementary School 
are guided by specific rules and classroom 
expectations that promote respect, cooperation, 
courtesy, and acceptance of others. Praise and 
positive discipline are emphasized consistently 
to create a warm and nurturing environment. 
Manuel L. Real Elementary School utilizes the 
Positive Behavior Intervention and Support system. A progressive discipline program is 
in place where students are given low level referrals by staff or the principal. If a student has 
been suspended more than two times, they will 
be placed on a Behavioral Support Plan (BSP).  
It is designed for all students and is preventative 
and responsive to any and all acts of bullying. 
Through the Positive Behavior Support System, 
our school community will provide intentional 
structures for student success through positive 
behavior expectations.
Each student receives a student/parent handbook (published in both English and 
Spanish) which outlines behavior expectations 
and the schoolwide discipline plan. School 
rules are posted in every classroom. At the 
beginning of the school year, teachers review 
attendance, grading, and discipline policies 
as part of their classroom orientation process. 
Teachers reinforce behavior expectations and 
classroom management policies with parents and students at Back to School Night. Teachers 
reinforce student behavior expectations weekly in classroom discussions with their students. 
In alignment with the schoolwide discipline plan, 
teachers have implemented grade-appropriate 
classroom management policies and incentive 
programs for student conduct and academics. A progressive discipline approach is taken 
when students are having difficulty following 
school rules or disrupting classroom instruction. 
Teachers refer students to the principal for 
DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time day custodian, one part-time custodian, one full-time evening custodian, and a groundskeeper (every Friday) are assigned 
to Manuel L. Real Elementary School and work 
closely with the principal for routine maintenance, 
daily custodial duties, and special events. The 
principal and custodians communicate daily via 
hand-held radios to discuss campus cleaning 
needs and safety concerns as needed. Every 
morning before school begins, the day custodian 
inspects facilities for safety hazards, graffiti, 
and other conditions that require immediate 
attention or removal prior to students and staff 
entering school grounds. Custodians and/or the 
principal inspect restrooms throughout the day 
as a proactive measure to keep restrooms fully 
stocked, safe, and sanitary.
Custodians are responsible for cleaning campus 
grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and common areas to ensure facilities remain in good working condition, clean, and safe for students, staff, and 
visitors.  The custodians are required to inspect 
restrooms a minimum of two times a day and subsequently document restroom inspections in 
their daily inspection log. All custodians follow 
approved district standards and procedures 
for routine custodial functions and campus 
maintenance. The groundskeeper is responsible 
for general gardening and maintenance work 
such as trash and debris removal, landscaping care, irrigation system maintenance, and playing 
field maintenance. 
Each custodian is provided one week of intensive 
training upon employment.  Thereafter, training is 
coordinated by district maintenance supervisors 
and custodial staff meetings are held twice 
annually. Training activities in use of equipment 
and safety procedures are led by district risk 
management representatives, vendors, and 
department supervisors. The district™s Operations 
Supervisor visits Manuel L. Real Elementary 
School monthly to review custodial performance, 
discuss campus maintenance needs with the 
principal, evaluate conditions of the school 
facility, and follow up on outstanding work order 
requests.˜˚˛˝˙˜ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘




ˇ˙˛
˜˚ˇ˘˙˛
˘˚˙˛˛
˙ˆˇ˘ˆ
˙˛ˇ˛˚˛
˙ˇ
ˇˇ
†ˇ



“‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝ˇˆˆ
˘˘ˇ˘
˝
˛˘˝ˇˆˆˇ˘
˘
˛˝˝˛˘˚
˛˘˚ˇ
˘˙ˇ
˛˘˙˙˙
ˆ˙˙˙ˆ
ˇš˘˛ˇ˛ˇ˛ˇ˘‡…—š
šƒ˘˛
ˇ˙˚ˇ
—šš—˚ˇ˘˛ˆ˝˝˘˙
Manuel L. Real Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2019-20 school year, teachers 
also had the opportunity to participate in the 
following professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes 
new teachers and provides intensive training 
to help them experience success in their 
new classrooms. For ongoing professional 
guidance, the district supports new and veteran 
teachers in developing their teaching skills. 
California Teacher Induction (CTID) program, 
a state-sponsored program, is designed for 
first- and second-year credentialed teachers 
and provides skills assistance over a two-year period. The Peer Assistance and Review 
program is designed to improve the education 
of students and increase the classroom 
performance of teachers, targeting both new 
and veteran teachers. 
counseling when students continue to be disruptive or are struggling in their efforts to correct poor 
behavior. School administrators take into consideration the severity and nature of each infraction 
when considering consequences for unacceptable conduct. Discipline is consistently managed in a 
fair, consistent manner and follows the schoolwide discipline plan. 
Staff members frequently reward and encourage students exhibiting positive behavior and academic 
progress consistent with PBIS restorative practices. We recognize students who demonstrate 
outstanding effort and improvement, as well as perfect attendance during our Trimester Awards 
Assemblies. The librarian presents Accelerated Reader incentive rewards to those students meeting 
personal reading goals. Students work together as a class to earn incentives for their efforts in 
meeting attendance goals.
CLASS SIZEThe Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-
32 students, and 33 or more students.
ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESStudents are encouraged to participate in 
the school™s many additional academic and 
extracurricular activities. These programs promote 
positive attitudes, encourage achievement, and 
instill a sense of belonging among students. 
The programs offered daily at Manuel L. Real 
Elementary until 6 p.m. include Think Together, 
tutoring, computers, arts/crafts, sports, and music. 
GATE (Gifted and Talented Education) students 
are invited to participate in weekly academic-based enrichment.CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement 
activities at Val Verde Unified School District 
are aligned to the California State Standards. 
The district™s Educational Services Department 
selects staff development concentrations based 
on principal feedback, teacher survey results, 
California State Standards, district benchmark 
assessment results, and state standardized test 
results. During the 2018-19 Manuel L. Real Elementary 
School held staff development training focused on:
Ł Common Core State StandardsŁ ELD Instructional StrategiesŁ Increasing Student EngagementŁ Interactive Technology (Touchscreen TV) for Teachers
Ł Shifts in MathematicsŁ Differentiated Instruction
Ł Further Developing Professional Learning CommunitiesŁ Integrating Technology into the Curriculum
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support (PBIS)Ł Promoting Community and Family InvolvementDuring the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 school years, Val Verde Unified School District provided 
professional development on the following topics
: ˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝˜
˜˝˜˙
˛˝
˙˙˝˜˙
˝˜˙
˘˝˛
˝˙
ˇ˝
˜˝˜˙
˛˝
˙˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˘˝˙˙
˝˛
ˇ˝
˜˝
˙˛˝
˙˝
˙˝˜˙
˘˝˛
˝˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

†

‘’
€



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

ˇ
†“
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
Manuel L. Real Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
as required by Education Code §60119 that 
1) textbooks and instructional materials were 
provided to all students, including English 
learners, in the district to the extent that each 
pupil has a standards-aligned textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 
and to take home, 2) sufficient textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English learners, that are 
aligned to the academic content standards 
and are consistent with the cycles and content 
of the curriculum frameworks in mathematics, 
science, history-social science, and English/
language arts, including the English language 
development component of an adopted program, 
3) sufficient textbooks or instructional materials 
were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign 
language or health classes, and 4) sufficient 
laboratory science equipment was available for 
science laboratory classes offered in grades 
9-12 inclusive. Within a six-week period prior to 
adoption, parents may preview recommended instructional materials at the district office or the 
school™s office.
In addition to the core subject areas, districts 
are required to disclose in their SARCs the sufficiency of instructional materials used for 
its visual/performing arts curricula.  During the 
2019-20 school year, Val Verde Unified School 
District certifies that each student, including 
English learners, enrolled in a visual/performing arts class has been provided with a textbook 
or supplemental materials to use in class and 
to take home. These materials comply with the 
California State Standards.
SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the 
California State Standards and approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every child receives a 
rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned core 
program. Manuel L. Real Elementary School structures its educational program so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their 
learning level. To ensure the success of every 
student, teachers use a variety of instructional techniques using research-based instructional 
materials and strategies.Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/
teacher leaders, administrators, and support staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the district and Riverside County Office of Education. Professional and subject-
specific offerings are consistent with the 
California State Standards. 
Special education staff, resource specialist 
staff, bilingual aides, and instructional aides 
receive customized training to support the 
district™s educational programs and develop 
strategies to increase effectiveness in teaching 
practices. Classified support staff receive job-
related training from department supervisors 
and district representatives; training activities and workshops are designed to enhance and 
extend job performance. Long-term substitute teachers may be encouraged to participate 
in site-sponsored activities to enhance 
their understanding of Val Verde Unified 
School District™s curriculum and classroom 
management practices.SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Manuel L. Real Elementary 
School is a responsibility shared among the 
school administration, teachers, and parents. 
School leadership is comprised of the principal, 
an instructional coach, a special education 
representative, and grade level representatives.
Grade level leaders meet monthly to 
collaboratively discuss staff needs, disseminate 
information, obtain staff feedback, conduct data 
analysis, and plan curricula throughout the year. 
Each leader/representative serves as a liaison 
and takes a supportive role in leading program 
implementation for their respective grade level 
team or department.The School Site Council (SSC), consisting of 
the principal, teachers, classified staff, and 
parents, is a major governing body that meets 
monthly to address school programs, discuss 
progress in meeting school goals, and serve as a liaison between the community and school 
administration. On an annual basis, the SSC 
is responsible for reviewing and approving the 
school site plan, safety plan, and budget.
Manuel L. Real Elementary School™s English 
Learner Advisory Council meets monthly to 
discuss and evaluate the curriculum provided to 
English Learners. This team of parents and staff 
ensures academic needs of English learners 
are in alignment with students™ needs and 
schoolwide goals.INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Val Verde Unified School District 
are being aligned to the California State 
Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected from the state™s most recent 
list of standards-based materials and adopted 
by the State Board of Education. Instructional 
materials for grades 9-12 are standards-
based and approved by the district™s Board of 
Education.  On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified 
School District™s Board of Education held a 
public hearing to certify the extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Board of Education 
adopted Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies 
SPECIAL EDUCATIONSpecial education students are mainstreamed 
into the general education classroom based 
upon their IEP (Individual Education Plan) 
and provided instruction in the least restrictive environment. Special education teachers, 
special education aides, and general education 
teachers take a team-oriented approach to 
provide maximum levels of instruction in the 
general education environment. For a portion 
of the regular school day, students may receive 
individual and/or small group instruction from 
special education staff in the Learning Center. 
A District Program Specialist meets with special 
education teachers regularly to provide support 
and assistance in developing student teaching 
schedules and allocating staff resources.
Each student is provided instruction based upon their IEP, which is reviewed and updated 
annually by the school™s IEP teams. The 
IEP ensures that students with disabilities 
have equal access to core curriculum and 
educational opportunities and is used to 
coordinate specially-designed instruction 
based upon individual academic, social, and 
behavioral needs.  
ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of Manuel L. Real Elementary™s teachers are 
certified and trained to provide instruction for 
students identified as English Learners (EL). 
Beginning level EL students receive English 
Language Development (ELD) instruction 
for 30 minutes a day as a supplement to 
their regular language arts curriculum. ELD 
instruction focuses on reading development, verbal language development, and vocabulary 
building. Three impact subs (for grades TK-
5) collaborate with class teachers to provide 
in-class small group support based upon individual student needs. As students increase 
fluency in the English language, Manuel L. 
Real Elementary School continues to monitor 
student performance through ELPAC results, 
benchmark assessments, and classroom 
observation to adjust instruction as needed 
to ensure continued success in acquiring the 
English language and proficiency in reading/
language arts.  
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚ˆ˘ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘
˙ˇˇ˚˛ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙ˇ˚ˆ˙
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘˘˘

“ˆ
“˘“ˆ
˙˘
‘ˆ’
ˇ˘“ˆˇ
˘˘ˇ˘
‡˘˘…
‘ˇˇˆ—ˇ˘
˘ƒ˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘⁄˘˘
›˘“ˆ˘
‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‰ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ
Manuel L. Real Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONManuel L. Real Elementary School offers a Gifted and Talented Education program for students who 
have been recognized as high achievers by their teachers and through district testing. Both GATE 
and non-GATE high achievers are clustered by grade level to receive accelerated, differentiated 
instruction that offers more depth and complexity throughout the curriculum. GATE students are 
invited to participate in academic-based enrichment activities once a week.
AVIDManuel L. Real Elementary School is an AVID elementary school.  AVID Elementary is a 
foundational component of the AVID College Readiness System and supports AVID™s mission to 
close the achievement gap by preparing all students for college readiness and success in a global 
society.  Based on the same learning foundation that underlies AVID Secondary, AVID Elementary 
is designed to be embedded into the daily instruction of all elementary classrooms across entire 
grade levels to maintain school wide structures.  AVID Elementary™s implementation of resources, 
trainings, and philosophy are all grounded in the idea that growth mindset can be taught to students.  
It is through the growth mindset that AVID students succeed in following their dreams and fulfilling 
their aspirations.  AVID Elementary takes a systemic approach through the use of WICOR (Writing, 
Inquiry, Collaboration, Organization, Reading) and an explicit focus on high expectations, rigor, and 
developing a college readiness culture.
INTERVENTION PROGRAMSManuel L. Real Elementary School supports intervention programs to meet the needs of those 
students not meeting state proficiency standards in reading, language arts, and math. Educational 
Management Teams comprised of school administrators, teachers, and parents work together to 
identify individualized intervention strategies for and monitor progress of students having difficulty 
with academic or social development. Formal intervention programs include:
Ł Math and Reading Intervention: based upon  analysis of student performance data, classroom 
teachers and Impact substitutes provide intensive intervention support for struggling students in 
grades 1-3.  Ł Think Together: voluntary after school program provided five days a week.  Students are engaged 
in a highly structured program that provides homework assistance, tutoring, enrichment, recreational 
activities, and sports. Think Together is offered after school until 6:00 p.m.
Ł Impact Substitute Teachers (two): substitute teachers in the morning and in the afternoon provides 
support to regular classroom teachers who conduct small group intervention in reading and math.PROFESSIONAL STAFFTEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, Manuel L. Real Elementary School had 28 teachers who met all 
credential requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number 
of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total 
teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the 
number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal authorization to teach that grade level, subject 
area, student group, etc
.SUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, 
nurses, health technicians, and special 
education service providers. Through 
close collaboration, this expert team is 
instrumental in improving student attendance 
and achievement through the identification, 
referral, and remediation of health and/or 
emotional  concerns. As a participating member of the Riverside 
County Special Education Local Plan Area 
(SELPA), Val Verde Unified School District 
and Manuel L. Real Elementary School have 
access to a full complement of professional resources and services to meet the individual 
needs of its students with disabilities. 
SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATAQUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about Manuel L. Real 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access Manuel L. Real 
Elementary™s SARC and access the internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries.  The closest 
library to Manuel L. Real Elementary is Perris 
Branch Public Library located at 163 E. San 
Jacinto  Avenue, Perris, CA 92570.
Perris Branch Public Library (951) 657-2358Hours: Sunday 1-5            Monday 10 -6            Tuesday-Wednesday 12-8 
            Thursday-Saturday 10-6
Number of computers available: 17Number of printers available: 1˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˘ˇ˝˜

ˇ
†
ˆ˘ˇˇ

‘ˇˇ˝

˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙˝
˙
ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙˙

˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˝
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆ˚ˆ˝ˆ˚˘
ˆ˚ˆ˝˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
ˇˇ˜ˆ˝˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘–
ˇˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
…ƒ⁄––‹›
Manuel L. Real Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT EXPENDIT
URESSALARY & BUDGET COMPARI
SONState law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general public. For comparison purposes, the State 
Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state.
EXPENDIT
URES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Verde Unified 
School District spent an average of $11,189 of 
total general funds to educate each student 
(based on 2017-18 audited financial statements 
and in accordance with calculations defined in 
Education Code §41372). The table in this report 
1) compares the school™s per pupil expenditures 
from unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the 
district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with 
average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures 
and salaries can be found at the CDE web site at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/
fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, 
excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.)
In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, 
state, and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:
Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Ongoing & Major Maintenance Account
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education









˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ“
‘’˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
‘˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
š€
‡
‡
‡
‡
˘ˇ˘—˝†˝˙˘–
ƒ€š•⁄
‡
‡
‡
‡
˘ˇ˘—‹ˇ–
⁄€›−‰
⁄€‰„”

„€⁄−„

‘’
ƒƒ‰€−”ƒ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
