Columbia Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
HONORS2019 PBIS Silver Coalition Implementation Award
2011 Title I Academic Achievement 
Award Recipient
2011 California Business for Education 
Excellence - Honor Roll Award Recipient
VISION STATEMENT
We believe that the most promising strategy for 
achieving the mission of Columbia Elementary 
School is to develop our capacity to function 
as a Professional Learning Community. We 
envision a school in which faculty and staff:
Ł Unite to achieve a common purpose and   clear goalsŁ Work together in collaborative teams
Ł Seek and implement researched-based    strategies to improve student achievement   on a continuing basisŁ Monitor each student™s progress
Ł Demonstrate a personal commitment to the  academic success and general well-being   of all studentsVALUESIn order to achieve the vision of our school 
that functions as a Professional Learning 
Community, the Columbia Elementary 
School staff has made the following collective 
commitments:Ł Utilize state/district adopted standards-based   instruction and learningŁ Develop, implement and monitor grade-level   measurable goals in targeted instructional   areasŁ Conduct item analysis of student   achievement data to identify individual    and group weaknesses and maintain   strengthsŁ Implement state/district assessments and   analyze the results to make instructional   decisionsŁ Utilize identified instructional strategies    to promote success for all studentsŁ Provide parents with resources, strategies,   and information to help children succeed
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to Columbia Elementary 
School, Home of the Rockets! Our school motto ﬁInspire, Inquire, Innovateﬂ reflects our commitment to preparing our students for college and career readiness in the 21st Century.  We integrate the Four Cs 
(Communication, Collaboration, Creativity, and 
Critical Thinking) as we teach the California State 
Standards and the Next Generation Science Standards.  Through STEAM (Science, Technology, 
Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics), our students 
learn to explore and innovate new ideas.  Through 
digital learning, they learn to research, create, and collaborate digitally.  Through AVID (Advancement 
Via Individual Determination), our students learn 
the organizational, writing, and reading skills necessary for success in college and in our global economy.  Through PBIS (Positive Behavioral 
Interventions and Supports), our students learn 
the important foundational social skills that are necessary in building successful relationships and collegiality.  They learn to work collaboratively and 
communicate effectively with their peers.  Every 
member of our learning community shares the responsibility of ensuring the academic, social, and 
emotional well-being of our students.We welcome and encourage parent participation 
in our classrooms and at special events including Family Game Night/Back to Basics Instructional Strategies Workshop, Public Exhibition Day, 
and Parent Workshops.  We look forward to 
sharing our programs with you during our school 
committee meetings including English Learner Advisory Committee, School Site Council, and Parent Teacher Organization. Our school-to-home 
communication provides valuable information 
about our school activities and expectations.We invite you to join us on our journey.  Our 
teachers teach with passion.  Our students learn 
with zeal.  Everyone is engaged in the learning process.  At Columbia Elementary, we make every 
minute count!MISSION STATEMENT
The mission of Columbia Elementary School is to 
engage all students with high levels of learning, 
empower all students to be responsible citizens, 
and inspire all students to excel for the future.
COLUMBIA
 ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
21350 Rider Street, Perris, CA 92570
PHONE: (951) 443-2460 FAX: (951) 443-2465
Thelma Almuena, Principal
Email: talmuena@valverde.eduColumbia Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in 
the heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 72 miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the 
district and its communities are March Air Force 
Base and the Lake Perris recreational area.  
During the 2018-19 school year, the district™s 
schools served more than 20,200 students residing in the rural and suburban communities 
of Perris, Moreno Valley, and portions of 
unincorporated Riverside County.  The district 
currently operates a preschool, 12 elementary 
schools, 4 middle schools, 3 comprehensive high schools, a student success academy, 
a virtual academy, and a continuation high 
school.   During the 2018-19 school year, Columbia 
Elementary served 701 students in grades 
TK-5. Student enrollment included 9.1% in 
special education, 44.1% qualifying for English 
learner support and 96.9% qualifying for 
free or reduced-price meals.  As a relatively 
new school, Columbia Elementary™s focus is 
on building a community of learners. While 
implementing a curriculum based on the 
rigourous California Common Core State 
Standards, the school will also develop 
programs to encourage involvement of parents 
and the community in school activities.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘††‘’
˘“
š’

˘
•

˘
††‡˘†“†
…ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

•˚ˇ„–

‡‘†˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙

…ˇ”ˇ
‚

‚ˇ
™˙

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP). The following components of this 
SARC address some of the priorities identified 
in the District™s LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are 
appropriately assigned and fully credentialed 
in the subject areas and for the pupils they are 
teaching; pupils have access to standards-
aligned Instructional materials and school 
facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks 
chart; and School Facilities & Maintenance, 
including the Campus Description and School 
Facility Good Repair Status charts.
Conditions of Learning (Implementation of State 
Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  Implementation of academic content and performance standards 
adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report Card.
Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts to 
seek parent input in decision making, promotion of 
parent participation in programs for unduplicated 
pupils and special need subgroups.  Covered in 
Parent Involvement.
Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score on 
Academic Performance Index, share of pupils 
that are college and career ready, share of 
English learners that become English proficient, 
English learner reclassification rate, share of 
pupils that pass Advanced Placement exams 
with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils determined 
prepared for college by the Early Assessment 
Program.  Covered in California Assessment of 
Student Performance and Progress, including the 
CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State Priority 
5:  School attendance rates, chronic absenteeism 
rates, middle school dropout rates, high school 
dropout rates, and high school graduation rates.   
Covered in Dropout Rates, including the Dropout 
chart; and Graduation Rates, including the 
Graduation Rate chart for high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil 
suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, and 
parents and teachers on the sense of safety and 
school connectedness.  Covered in Discipline 
& Climate for Learning, including Suspension & 
Expulsion chart; and School Site Safety Plan.
Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course of 
study that includes all of the subject areas.   Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report Card.
Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil 
outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in 
Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness 
Test chart.
PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to school 
and student success.  Columbia Elementary 
School offers a wide variety of opportunities for 
parents to support the school and their child™s 
academic efforts through volunteering efforts or 
simply attending special events and activities.  
Parents seeking more information or who are 
interested in participating in any of the activities 
listed herein may contact the principal™s secretary 
at (951) 443-2460.Volunteer to Help:
Ł In the classrooms and libraryŁ Chaperone field tripsŁ School eventsŁ School gardenŁ Fundraising eventsJoin Leadership Groups:Ł Parent Advisory Council (Title I)
Ł English Learner Advisory Committee
Ł GATE Advisory Council 
  (Gifted & Talented Education)
Ł Parent Advisory Committee (PAC)
Ł Parent Teacher Organization (PTO)
Ł School Advisory Council (Title I)
Ł School Site CouncilActivities and events held throughout the school year promote school spirit and contribute to a 
warm, nurturing, and stimulating environment where students feel at home and can succeed 
at doing their very best.  School staff encourage 
parents to attend:Ł Back to School NightŁ Family Game Night/Back to Basics   Instructional Strategies Workshop
Ł Family Literacy Workshop
Ł Lunch on the LawnŁ Parent ConferencesŁ Parent Education Workshops
Ł Public Exhibition DaySchool to home communication is provided 
in both English and Spanish.  Memos, flyers, 
and letters are sent home as needed for special announcements and reminders.  
Notifications are also provided through Peach 
Jar on the school website and the VVUSD app.  Blackboard/ParentLink is also used by the 
school staff to quickly send important emails, 
telephone messages, and text messages to 
students™ parents/guardians. 
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT BENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student learning. District benchmark assessments 
supplement multiple measures of assessment 
to identify students™ mastery of content, depth 
of knowledge, and skills. District benchmark 
assessments are aligned to the California State 
Standards and are comprised of both formative and summative assessments given in math, 
reading, and language arts. During the 2018-
19 school year, all students in grades 1-5 were 
assessed multiple times utilizing a system of 
short-cycle formative assessments to identify content area mastery and specific gaps in the 
learning process.  Students in grades 7-12 
were evaluated quarterly throughout the year to determine course grades and levels of content 
mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used to 
identify student progress, understanding of 
state content standards, and mastery of subject area matter/concepts. These measures include: 
state summative assessments, benchmark assessments, grade level/department common 
assessments, classroom observations, teacher-
created assessments, adaptive diagnostic 
assessments in reading and math, and early 
indicators of reading assessments. Collectively, 
the benchmark assessments and multiple 
measures aid teachers in 1) identifying areas 
where instruction may or may not be effective; 
2) guiding classroom instruction practices and strategies; and 3) identifying students 
who need targeted academic assistance or intervention. Teachers and administrators are 
able to pinpoint any deficiencies or gaps in the 
learning process, identifying very specific skill 
sets and subject area content that needs to be 
retaught, reinforced, or revised to ensure every 
student obtains a solid foundation for future 
success in learning.Columbia Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESSThe California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes the 
Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education population, 
and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most significant cognitive 
disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well students are mastering California™s 
standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and 
mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown only 
for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank in the 
tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the California 
Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛
˘
†ˆ“
˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘


˘
••••••••••••••••••••‘‡˚
••••••••••••••••••••…ˆˆ—˝˛


–˛


˜⁄˚ˆˆ‹
••••••••••••••••••••˝˙˙›ˆ−˝˘˛



ˇƒˆ


˛ˆ⁄˛ƒˆ−˛
“†“†“†
“†
‘˛ˆ”ƒ
••••••••••••••••••••˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
˜ˆ˝˚
††“
˜
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, Columbia 
Elementary School is required by the state to 
administer a physical fitness test to all students 
in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test 
measures each student™s ability to complete six 
fitness tasks in six major areas. Students that 
either meet or exceed the standards in all six fitness areas are considered to be physically 
fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative 
district and state results can be found at the CDE™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.   
SCHOOL FACILITIES &SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEColumbia Elementary School provides a safe, 
clean environment for learning through proper 
facilities maintenance and campus supervision. 
Original school buildings were constructed in 
2004; ongoing maintenance ensures school facilities are kept safe and in good working condition and continue to provide adequate 
space for students and staff. STEAM lab is now 
open for learning. 
2018-19 Campus Improvements:
Ł Installation of flooring in the administration   office, reception area and hallways
Ł Installation of window shadesŁ Installation of flood lightsŁ Installation of lighting and fencing Columbia Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SUPERVISION AND SAFETYColumbia Elementary School implements 
a Secure Campus policy. Each morning as 
students arrive on campus, staff members 
are strategically stationed on campus and at 
the two entrances to monitor activities and 
behavior. During recess and lunch, seven 
supervision aides monitor student activities 
on the playground and in the cafeteria. When 
students are dismissed at the end of the day, 
staff members oversee designated exits and 
pick-up areas to ensure students leave campus 
in a safe and orderly manner. A crossing guard 
assists students and community members to cross the street at the back gate before and after school.  An additional crossing guard 
assists students and community members in the front parking lot before school.  The same 
individual serves as an additional supervision 
aide during lunch/recess for two hours. 
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain 
a safe and secure environment, all parents 
and visitors are required to check in at the 
school office upon arrival and present valid 
picture identification, obtain and wear a visitor™s 
badge, and then return to the school office 
upon departure. All volunteers must apply for 
either non-supervisory or supervisory volunteer 
clearance.SCHOOL INSPECTIONSColumbia Elementary School and the Val Verde 
Unified School District™s Maintenance and 
Operations Department (M&O) work together to ensure student safety and uphold high cleaning 
standards. M&O supervisors and school 
administration inspect facilities on a continual 
basis to identify and resolve concerns in a 
proactive and timely manner. The most recent 
facilities inspection at Columbia Elementary 
School took place on July 15, 2019. Schools 
are required by state law to report the condition 
of their facilities; the School Facility Good 
Repair Status table illustrated in this report  
identifies the state-required inspection areas 
and discloses the operational status in each 
of those areas. During fiscal year 2019-20, all 
restrooms were fully functional and available for 
student use at the time of the inspection.DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time day custodian, one full-time 
evening custodian, and two groundskeepers 
are assigned to Columbia Elementary School 
and work closely with the principal for routine 
maintenance, daily custodial duties, and special 
events. The principal and school custodians 
communicate daily to discuss campus cleaning 
needs and safety concerns. Every morning 
before school begins, custodians inspect the facilities for safety hazards, graffiti, and other 
conditions that require immediate attention 
or removal prior to students and staff entering 
school grounds. 
Custodians are responsible for cleaning 
campus grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and common areas to ensure facilities remain in 
good working condition, clean, and safe for students, staff, and visitors. The custodians 
inspect restrooms every hour during the day as a proactive measure to keep restrooms fully 
stocked, safe, and sanitary. The custodians are 
required to subsequently document restroom 
inspections in their daily inspection log. All 
custodians follow approved district standards 
and procedures for routine custodial functions 
and campus maintenance. The groundskeeper 
is responsible for general gardening and 
maintenance work such as trash and debris 
removal, landscaping care, irrigation system 
maintenance, and playing field maintenance. 
Each custodian is provided one week 
of intensive training upon employment.  
Thereafter, training is coordinated by district 
maintenance supervisors and custodial staff 
meetings are held twice annually. Training 
activities in use of equipment and safety 
procedures are led by district risk management 
representatives, vendors, and department supervisors. The district™s Operations 
Supervisor visits Columbia Elementary School 
monthly to review custodial performance, 
discuss campus maintenance needs with the 
principal, evaluate conditions of the school 
facility, and follow up on outstanding work order 
requests.˜˚˛˝˙˜ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘




ˇ˙˛
˜˚ˇ˘˙˛
˘˚˙˛˛
˙ˆˇ˘ˆ
˙˛ˇ˛˚˛
˙ˇ
ˇˇ
†ˇ



“‘
˘
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆ˝˛ˇˆ
˝˙ˆ˛˛ˆ
˝˛ˆ˝˝˚˙˝
˝˚˙˝ˇ˛ˇˆ
˛ˆ˛˚ˇ˛ˆ˚ˇ˛
ˆˆ˘ˇˆ
˛˝˝˛˘˚
˛˘˚ˇ
˘˙ˇ
˛˘˙˙˙
ˆ˙˙˙ˆ
’š€˛ˇˆ˙˘˘ˇ˘˙˛‡˘
˘˛˘
‡…—šš€˛ˇˆ˙˘˘ˇ˘˙˛ˆ˙˘˘˚
˙˛ˆ–˙ƒš
‹—šš˝˙ˇ˘˛˛˘˛
š
˘ˆ˘˛˘˛˛˘˛˘˚–‡˛ˇˆ˙˘˘˚
˙˛—ˇ˙
˛ˇˆ˙˘˘ˇ˘˙˛
‹š„˘ƒ˘˘˛˘˛˛˘
š“˙ˇˆ
˘˛˘˛˛˘š˘˘˛
˚
—šš˜˚”ˇ˛˘˛™˙˚
ˇ˙˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝

ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙†˚˝“˙‘˛’’˝’
˙†˚˙‘˛’’˝’
˙˚’˝’˙•’˙ˇ’˚‡
˙’˚˙…˙
’˚—
˙‹˛€
‹˘€˝˛˝
⁄˘›ˇ˝˚˙
˙
–−˚˝˙‰„˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was 
developed for Columbia Elementary School in 
collaboration with local agencies and the district 
office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 requirements.  
The Val Verde Unified School District partners 
with Hour-Zero for school emergency response 
planning, management, consulting, and training. 
Hour-Zero  specialists support district and 
school staff with the ongoing development of 
a comprehensive emergency preparedness 
program to address critical components of 
emergency response planning and compliance 
with federal and state requirements.Components of Columbia Elementary™s school 
safety plan include child abuse reporting 
procedures, teacher notification of dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and departure 
from school, sexual harassment policy, dress 
code policy, and bully prevention policy. The 
school™s most current safety plan was formally 
reviewed, updated, and approved by the School 
Site Council in December 2019. School staff 
discussed and reviewed school safety plan 
updates throughout the school year. 
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance department work together to 
ensure playing fields, classrooms, and campus 
grounds are well-maintained and kept safe 
and functioning for students, staff, and visitors. 
Maintenance and Operations (M&O) continues 
to employ an electronic work order process 
to facilitate and improve services to Columbia Elementary School.  Teachers and school staff 
communicate unscheduled maintenance needs, 
urgent repairs, or special projects to designated 
custodial and office support staff who prepare 
and submit work orders to M&O for resolution. 
Emergency situations are immediately resolved either by the school custodian or district maintenance staff.   
Columbia Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
campus.    Staff members address students who violate behavior expectations and remind them of 
location expectations and appropriate social skills.  During the first week of school and as needed 
throughout the year, school wide assemblies are held to review and reinforce school rules, positive 
behavior expectations, and social skills.  Throughout the school year, students are reminded of 
their responsibility to make good choices.  Classroom meetings and morning announcements 
provide opportunities for students, teachers, and principal to discuss positive behavior expectations 
and social skills. Columbia promotes positive relationships and a sense of belonging by fostering 
inclusion through its daily implementation of restorative practices, which includes morning 
classroom/community meetings and restorative circles.
Parents and students are informed of access to the school™s Parent-Student Handbook (published 
in English and Spanish) via our school website.  The handbook addresses school policies and 
procedures, behavior expectations, and the discipline process.  
A progressive discipline approach is taken when students are having difficulty following school 
rules or are disrupting classroom instruction.  Teachers refer students to the principal when they 
continue to violate positive behavior expectations.  The principal takes into consideration the 
severity, frequency, and nature of each infraction when considering consequences for unacceptable 
conduct.  Discipline is consistently managed in a fair, firm manner and follows the schoolwide 
discipline process. 
Staff members frequently reward and encourage students exhibiting positive behavior, academic 
achievement, and improvement. A Student of the Month assembly is held once a month. Three 
students from each classroom are recognized for Academic Excellence, Character Trait, or Early 
College Trait. At the end of each trimester, an awards ceremony is held to recognize students 
for their individual accomplishments. Honors include Principal™s Honor Roll, Honor Roll, Star 
Homework (grades K-2), AVID for Learning (grades 3-5), and Perfect Attendance Awards.  Parents 
are invited to attend school awards.
ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESStudents are encouraged to participate in the school™s many additional academic and 
extracurricular activities. These programs promote positive attitudes, encourage achievement, 
and instill a sense of belonging among students. Extracurricular and enrichment activities include: 
GATE enrichment, sports (track, soccer, softball, basketball),robotics, and the Visual & Performing 
Arts (VAPA) such as dance, art, and theater.
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONINSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Val Verde Unified School District are being 
aligned to the California State Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected 
from the state™s most recent list of standards-based materials and adopted by the State Board 
of Education. Instructional materials for grades 9-12 are standards-based and approved by the 
district™s Board of Education.  
On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified School District™s Board of Education held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been provided 
to students. The Board of Education adopted Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies as required 
by Education Code §60119 1) that textbooks and instructional materials were provided to all 
students, including English learners, in the district to the extent that each pupil has a standards-
aligned textbook or instructional materials, or both, to use in class and to take home, 2) sufficient 
textbooks and instructional materials were provided to each student, including English learners, 
that are aligned to the academic content standards and are consistent with the cycles and content 
of the curriculum frameworks in math, science, history-social science, and English/language arts, 
including the English language development component of an adopted program, 3) sufficient 
textbooks or instructional materials were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign language or 
health classes, and 4) sufficient laboratory science equipment was available for science laboratory 
classes offered in grades 9-12 inclusive. Within a six-week period prior to adoption, parents may 
preview recommended instructional materials at the district office or the school™s office.
In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the sufficiency 
of instructional materials used for its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 2019-20 school 
year, Val Verde Unified School District certifies that each student, including English learners, 
enrolled in a visual/performing arts class has been provided with a textbook or supplemental 
materials to use in class and to take home. These materials comply with the California State 
Standards.CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTCLASS SIZE The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students.DISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGA safe, clean, and an effective learning program 
provide the basis for Columbia™s positive 
learning environment and discipline program. 
The staff supports an environment that teaches 
students, through the daily curriculum, the skills 
to resolve conflicts and take responsibility for 
their behavior and the choices they make. 
Praise and positive discipline are emphasized 
consistently to create a warm and nurturing 
environment.Columbia implements the Olweus Bullying 
Prevention Program (OBPP).  The Olweus 
Bullying Prevention Program is designed to 
be preventative and responsive to any and 
all acts of bullying.  The program requires 
active participation from all students, parents, 
teachers, and staff.  The Positive Behavioral 
Interventions and Supports (PBIS) is integrated 
with OBPP.  Its emphasis is to create 
school-wide systems of support that include 
proactive strategies for defining, teaching, and 
supporting appropriate social skills to create 
positive school environments.  Through PBIS, 
the school community provides intentional 
structures for student success through 
positive behavior expectations.  Students 
are taught to be respectful, responsible, and 
safe.  Positive behavior expectations are 
posted in the classrooms and throughout the 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

ˇ

˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝
˜˝
˛˝
˙˝˜
˝˜
˘˝˛
ˇ˝˛
˜˝
˛˝
˙˝˜
˝˛
˘˝˜
ˇ˝˜˝
˜˝
˛˝
˙˝˛
˝
˘˝˜



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝




‘’š
Columbia Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2019-20 school year, teachers also 
had the opportunity to participate in the following 
professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes 
new teachers and provides intensive training 
to help them experience success in their 
STAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement 
activities at Val Verde Unified School District 
are aligned to the California State Standards. 
The district™s Educational Services Department 
selects staff development concentrations based 
on principal feedback, teacher survey results, 
California State Standards, district benchmark 
assessment results, and state standardized test 
results. During the 2018-19 school year, Columbia 
Elementary School held staff development 
training focused on:
Ł AVID Elementary Strategies
Ł California State StandardsŁ Conceptual MathematicsŁ Design Thinking (DT)
Ł Discovery EducationŁ English Language Development StrategiesŁ IstationŁ Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS)Ł Number Talks
Ł Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports  (PBIS)Ł Response to Intervention (RtI2)Ł Restorative Practices/Restorative CirclesŁ Robotics / Digital Technology
Ł Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, 
  Mathematics (STEAM)Ł Step Up to Writing
During the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 
school years, Val Verde Unified School District 
provided professional development on the 
following topics: 
new classrooms. For ongoing professional 
guidance, the district supports new and veteran 
teachers in developing their teaching skills. 
California Teachers Induction (CTID) program, 
a state-sponsored program, is designed for 
first- and second-year credentialed teachers 
and provides skills assistance over a two-
year period. The Peer Assistance and Review 
program is designed to improve the education 
of students and increase the classroom 
performance of teachers, targeting both new 
and veteran teachers. Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. New teachers, experienced teachers, 
mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and 
support staff are encouraged to participate 
in workshops sponsored by the district 
and Riverside County Office of Education. 
Professional and subject-specific offerings are 
consistent with the California State Standards. 
Special education staff, resource specialist 
staff, bilingual aides, and instructional aides 
receive customized training to support the 
district™s educational programs and develop 
strategies to increase effectiveness in teaching 
practices. Classified support staff receive job-
related training from department supervisors 
and district representatives; training activities 
and workshops are designed to enhance and 
extend job performance. Long-term substitute teachers may be encouraged to participate 
in site-sponsored activities to enhance 
their understanding of Val Verde Unified 
School District™s curriculum and classroom 
management practices.
SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Columbia Elementary School 
is a responsibility shared among school 
administration, teachers, and parents. As 
a Professional Learning Community the 
Leadership Team, comprised of the principal, 
grade level chairs, leadership team members, 
instructional coach, and the principal™s 
secretary meet monthly to collaboratively address instruction and curriculum, school mission and vision, culture and climate, and 
assessments focusing on student lesson plans, and assessments focusing on student 
achievement.  Team members are responsible 
for communicating meetings, discussions, and 
decisions as well as serving as a liaison to their 
respective grade level teams. 
The School Site Council (SSC), consisting 
of the school principal, teachers, classified 
staff, and parents, is a major governing body 
that meets monthly to address and monitor 
school programs, allocation of funds, discuss 
progress in meeting school goals, and serve as 
a liaison between the community and school administration. On an annual basis, the SSC 
is responsible for reviewing and approving the 
school site plan, safety plan, and budget.
SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to 
the California State Standards and approved 
by the State Board of Education. Every child receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-
aligned core program. Columbia Elementary 
School structures its educational program so 
that all students receive instruction appropriate 
to their learning level. To ensure the success 
of every student, teachers use a variety of instructional techniques using research-based 
instructional materials and strategies.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚ˆ˘ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘
˙ˇˇ˚˛ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙ˇ˚ˆ˙
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘˘˘

“ˆ
“˘“ˆ
˙˘
‘ˆ’
ˇ˘“ˆˇ
˘˘ˇ˘
‡˘˘…
‘ˇˇˆ—ˇ˘
˘ƒ˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘⁄˘˘
›˘“ˆ˘
‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‰ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
Columbia Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SPECIAL EDUCATIONSpecial education students are mainstreamed into the general education classroom based 
upon their IEP (Individualized Education Plan) 
and provided instruction in the least restrictive environment. Special education teachers, 
special education aides, and general education 
teachers take a team-oriented approach to 
provide maximum levels of instruction in the 
general education environment. For a portion 
of the regular school day, students may receive 
individual and/or small group instruction from 
special education staff in the Learning Center. 
A District Program Specialist meets with special 
education teachers regularly to provide support 
and assistance in developing student teaching 
schedules and allocating staff resources. Each 
student is provided instruction based upon their 
IEP, which is reviewed and updated annually by 
the school™s IEP teams. The IEP ensures that 
students with disabilities have equal access to 
core curriculum and educational opportunities 
and is used to coordinate specially-designed 
instruction based upon individual academic, 
social, and behavioral needs.  
ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of Columbia Elementary™s teachers are 
certified and trained to provide instruction 
for students identified as English Learners 
(EL). Beginning level EL students receive 
designated English Language Development 
(ELD) instruction by their class teacher for 
30 minutes a day as a supplement to their 
regular language arts curriculum. Using the 
McGraw-Hill Wonders ELD curriculum, ELD instruction focuses on reading development, 
verbal language development, and vocabulary building. Integrated ELD is implemented 
throughout the day and across disciplines. 
Three bilingual aides collaborate with class 
teachers to provide in-class individual and 
small group support based upon individual 
student needs. As students increase 
fluency in the English language, Columbia 
Elementary School continues to monitor 
student performance through ELPAC results, 
benchmark assessments, and classroom 
observation to adjust instruction as needed 
to ensure continued success in acquiring the 
English language and proficiency in reading/
language arts.  
GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONColumbia Elementary School offers a Gifted 
and Talented Education program for students 
who have been recognized as high achievers 
by their teachers and through district testing. GATE students are clustered 30 minutes a day 
to receive language arts enrichment through 
accelerated, differentiated instruction in both 
depth and complexity. GATE students are 
invited to participate in after-school activities 
held once a week for 60 minutes; activities 
focus on special projects.
AVIDColumbia is an AVID elementary school.  AVID 
Elementary is a foundational component of the 
AVID College Readiness System and supports 
AVID™s mission to close the achievement gap 
by preparing all students for college readiness 
and success in a global society.  Based on the 
same learning foundation that underlies AVID 
Secondary, AVID Elementary is designed to 
be embedded into the daily instruction of all 
elementary classrooms across entire grade 
levels to maintain school wide structures.  AVID Elementary™s implementation of resources, trainings, 
and philosophy are all grounded in the idea that growth mindset can be taught to students.  It is 
through the growth mindset that AVID students succeed in following their dreams and fulfilling their 
aspirations.  AVID Elementary takes a systemic approach through the use of WICOR (Writing, 
Inquiry, Collaboration, Organization, Reading) and an explicit focus on high expectations, rigor, and 
developing a college readiness culture.
INTERVENTION PROGRAMSColumbia Elementary School supports intervention programs to meet the needs of those 
students not meeting state proficiency standards in reading, language arts, and math. Education 
Management Teams comprised of school administrators, teachers, and parents work together to 
identify individualized intervention strategies for and monitor progress of students having difficulty 
with academic or social development. Formal intervention programs include:
Ł Universal Access Time: on a daily basis, all students are grouped based on proficiency levels in 
language arts. Each group of students receives 30 minutes of intensive intervention or enrichment in 
language arts based upon their individual abilities. 
Ł Impact Substitute Teachers: During the school day intervention is provided through differentiated 
small group instruction.  A variety of instruction strategies are used to meet students™ needs.  Impact 
substitute teachers are assigned to assist in the classroom.Ł Impact Tutors: During the school day intervention is provided to Kindergarten, 1st, and 2nd grade 
students through differentiated small group instruction.  
Ł Think Together: voluntary free after-school program provided five days a week. Students are 
engaged in a highly structured program that provides standards-based homework assistance, 
tutoring, and sports. The program is offered daily after school until 6:00 p.m.
PROFESSIONAL STAFFTEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, Columbia Elementary School had 28 teachers who met all 
credential requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number 
of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total 
teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the 
number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal authorization to teach that grade level, subject 
area, student group, etc.SUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, 
nurses, health technicians, and special education service providers. Through close collaboration, 
this expert team is instrumental in improving student attendance and achievement through the 
identification, referral, and remediation of health 
and/or emotional concerns. 
The psychologist assists with academic, social, and emotional issues; provides assessments 
to determine eligibility for Special Education 
services; and facilitates coordination of Individual 
Education Plans (IEP). The school nurse 
conducts health screening programs. Health technicians provide basic aid. As a participating 
member of the Riverside County Special 
Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), Val Verde 
Unified School District and Columbia Elementary 
School have access to a full complement of professional resources and services to meet the 
individual needs of its students with disabilities. 
The counselor-therapist provides small group counseling to assist and teach students social and 
coping skills as well as one to one counseling. The therapist is on campus two days a week.
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆ˝ˆ˝ˆ˙˘
ˆ˚ˆ˝ˆ˝˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
˜ˇ˜ˆ˝˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘—
ˇˇˇˇ˝–
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ

——ƒ⁄



























Columbia Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT EXPENDIT
URESSALARY & BUDGET COMPARI
SONState law requires comparative salary and budget 
information to be reported to the general public. 
For comparison purposes, the State Department of Education has provided average salary data 
from school districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state.
EXPENDIT
URES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Verde Unified 
School District spent an average of $11,189 of 
total general funds to educate each student (based 
on 2017-18 audited financial statements and in 
accordance with calculations defined in Education 
Code §41372). The table in this report 1) compares 
the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted 
(basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with 
other schools in the district and throughout the state, 
and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the 
school site with average teacher salaries at the 
district and state levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at 
the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in 
the table below reflect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, 
facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.)
In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, 
state, and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:
Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Ongoing & Major Maintenance Account
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education Program
SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATAQUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about Columbia 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access Columbia Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet at any 
of the county™s public libraries.  The closest 
library to Columbia Elementary School is Perris 
Branch Public Library located at 163 E. San 
Jacinto  Avenue, Perris, CA 92570.
Perris Branch Public Library - (951) 657-2358Hours: Sunday 1-5; Monday 10 -6             Tuesday-Wednesday 12-8  
            Thursday-Saturday 10-6
Number of computers available: 17Number of printers available: 1








˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
†“˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†‘˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
’š
‡
‡
‡
‡
‘˘ˇ˘—˝˙˘–
’ƒ⁄‡
‡
‡
‡
˘ˇ˘—‹ˇ–
›š•ƒ⁄
›š
−−‰
⁄š›€⁄
⁄„‰
†“
−⁄š„”ƒ”„„ƒƒ’‰”„šƒ€„‰
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
