Val Verde Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
of unincorporated Riverside County.  The district 
currently operates a preschool, 12 elementary schools, 4 middle schools, 3 comprehensive high schools, a student success academy, a virtual 
academy, and a continuation high school.  
During the 2018-19 school year, Val Verde 
Elementary served 713 students in grades K-6. Student enrollment included 12.6% receiving special education services, 30.9% qualifying for English learner support, and 90.2% qualifying for free or reduced-price meals.  ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ††“
˘†
‘’˘š
€‘

˘
•

˘‘
‡“˘
€‡˘€
…ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

•˚ˇ„–

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙

…ˇ™ˇ
”

ˇ
˙ˆ˚

The principal leads a highly qualified, professional team offering a specially-designed curriculum 
to meet the needs of every child. Rigourous academics, and a warm, positive school environment offer students the opportunity to learn 
and achieve their maximum potential. In recognition 
of its outstanding curriculum, Val Verde Elementary 
has received  the Title I Academic Achievement 
Award for the past five consecutive years! 
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (
LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, school districts are required to develop, adopt, 
and annually update a three-year Local Control 
and Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 
components of this SARC address some of the priorities identified in the District™s LCAP:
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to Val Verde 
Elementary School, home of 
the Thunderbirds. Our student 
enrollment for the 2018-19 school year was approximately 713. We have 
a tradition of providing superior education to all our students so that they may learn and compete 
successfully in the global market. We want 
excellence for all. The California State Standards and our high expectations for students provide the drive and impetus to daily instruction in our classrooms. There 
is an emphasis placed on the acquisition of basic 
skills in reading, language arts, writing, and math. Supplemental instruction is provided in phonics. In addition, the language arts block has been extended 
in an attempt to provide more learning time for 
all students. Our students continue to show great 
academic gains. At Val Verde Elementary School, we are committed 
to providing a team effort that is conducive to 
student learning. Our teachers continue to build 
their capacity by participating in ongoing training in the areas of Professional Learning Communities, PBIS, and high-impact, research-based instructional strategies that promote student learning. As the 2019-20 year unfolds, we look forward to providing an environment that fosters character 
building and access to a rich curriculum for the children of Val Verde Elementary School.
VISION STATEMENT
We believe all our students can and will learn the 
California Common Core State Standards. Learning 
will be continuously measured so that low-achieving students can receive support, and proficient 
students can be challenged utilizing teamwork 
and collaboration. Our safe environment has been created so that all the Val Verde Elementary 
community will be able to learn together and support each other.
DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in the 
heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 72 miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the district and 
its communities are March Air Force Base and the 
Lake Perris recreational area.  During the 2018-19 school year, the district™s schools served more than 
20,200 students residing in the rural and suburban communities of Perris, Moreno Valley, and portions 
VAL VERDE ELEMENTARY
 SCHOOL2658 Indian Avenue, Perris, CA 92571
 Phone: (951) 940-8550  Ł  Fax: (951) 940-8555Fernando Betanzos, Principal Email: fbetanzos@valverde.edu  Val Verde Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are appropriately assigned and fully credentialed in the subject areas and for the pupils they are teaching; pupils have access to standards-aligned 
Instructional materials and school facilities are maintained in good repair.  Covered in Teacher 
Assignment, including the Teacher Credentials 
& Misassignments chart; Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks chart; and School Facilities 
& Maintenance, including the Campus Description and School Facility Good Repair Status charts.Conditions of Learning (Implementation of State 
Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  Implementation of academic content and performance standards adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not covered in the School Accountability Report Card.
Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts to 
seek parent input in decision making, promotion of parent participation in programs for unduplicated pupils and special need subgroups.  Covered in 
Parent Involvement.Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  Performance 
on standardized tests, score on Academic 
Performance Index, share of pupils that are college and career ready, share of English learners 
that become English proficient, English learner reclassification rate, share of pupils that pass 
Advanced Placement exams with a 3 or higher, and 
share of pupils determined prepared for college 
by the Early Assessment Program.  Covered in 
California Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress, including the CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic absenteeism rates, middle school dropout rates, high school dropout rates, and high school graduation rates.   
Covered in Dropout Rates, including the Dropout 
chart; and Graduation Rates, including the Graduation Rate chart for high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other local measures including surveys of pupils, and parents and 
teachers on the sense of safety and school 
connectedness.  Covered in Discipline & Climate for Learning, including Suspension & Expulsion chart; and School Site Safety Plan.Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course of study that includes all of the subject areas.   Not covered in the School Accountability Report Card.
Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness Test chart.
PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to school and student success.  Val Verde Elementary School 
offers a wide variety of opportunities for parents to 
support the school and their child™s academic efforts 
through volunteering efforts or simply attending 
special events and activities.  Parents seeking more information  or who are interested in participating 
in any of the activities listed below may contact the 
school office at (951) 940-8550.
Volunteer to Help:
Ł In the classrooms  Ł In the libraryŁ FundraisingŁ Chaperone field trips 
Ł Schoolwide activitiesJoin Leadership Groups:Ł District Advisory Council (Title I) (DAC)
Ł District English Learner Advisory Council 
  (DELAC) Ł English Learner Advisory Council (ELAC)
Ł GATE Advisory Council (Gifted & Talented
   Education)Ł Parent Advisory Committee
Ł Parent Teacher Organization (PTO)
Ł School Advisory Council (Title I)
Ł School Site Council (SSC)Attend Special Events & Workshops:
Ł Back to School NightŁ Open HouseŁ Student performancesŁ Parent education workshopsŁ Science FairŁ Parent conferencesŁ Spring CarnivalŁ Spelling BeeŁ Student ShowcaseŁ Winter ProgramŁ Student recognition assembliesSCHOOL-TO-HOME
 COMM
UNICATIONSVal Verde Elementary uses PAMS (online student 
progress system) and Blackboard Connect, an 
automated telephone message system, to deliver 
frequent announcements to every student™s home; 
messages are provided in both in English and Spanish. A monthly school calendar is distributed 
to keep parents up to date on school news. Some grade level teams prepare newsletters to share information about classroom activities. Flyers, 
letters, Peach Jar, and the Val Verde App are 
utilized as needed for special announcements and 
reminders. The school marquee displays dates of 
upcoming school events and current news. The 
school™s website provides families with up to date 
information on news and events regarding school activities.STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT B
ENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student learning. District benchmark assessments supplement multiple measures of assessment to identify students™ mastery of content, depth of knowledge, 
and skills. District benchmark assessments are 
aligned to the California State Standards and are comprised of both formative and summative assessments given in math, reading, and language arts. During the 2018-19 school year, all students 
in grades 1-5 were assessed multiple times utilizing a system of short-cycle formative assessments to identify content area mastery and specific gaps in the learning process.  Students in grades 7-12 were 
evaluated quarterly throughout the year to determine course grades and levels of content mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used to identify student progress, understanding of state content standards, and mastery of subject area matter/concepts. These measures include: state summative 
assessments, benchmark assessments, grade level/department common assessments, classroom observations, teacher-created assessments, adaptive diagnostic assessments in reading and 
math, and early indicators of reading assessments. 
Collectively, the benchmark assessments and 
multiple measures aid teachers in 1) identifying areas where instruction may or may not be effective; 
2) guiding classroom instruction practices and strategies; and 3) identifying students who need targeted academic assistance or intervention. Teachers and administrators are able to pinpoint 
any deficiencies or gaps in the learning process, 
identifying very specific skill sets and subject area content that needs to be retaught, reinforced, or revised to ensure every student obtains a solid foundation for future success in learning.PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, Val Verde 
Elementary School is required by the state to administer a physical fitness test to all students in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test measures 
each student™s ability to complete six fitness tasks 
in six major areas. Students that either meet or exceed the standards in all six fitness areas are considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative district and state results can be found at the CDE™s website www.cde.
ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESSThe California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education population, and the California Alternate 
Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP 
results are a measure of how well students 
are mastering California™s standards in English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and 
are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs 
test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include 
overall results comparing the school, district and state scores as well as the school™s overall score 
in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. 
More information on CAASPP can be found on the 
California Department of Education™s website www.
cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

Val Verde Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

†
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘


˝˘ˆ•˘˘ˆ˚šˆ˝˛
……………………………………………………˘
……………………………………………………‘˚
……………………………………………………–ˆˆƒ˝˛


–˝⁄˝˘ˆˆ€ˆ•˙
……………………………………………………‹˛


˜⁄˚ˆˆ−
……………………………………………………˝˙˙‰ˆ„˝˘˛



ˇ›ˆ


˛ˆ⁄˛›ˆ„˛
†††“††
†“
‘˛ˆ‚›
……………………………………………………˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˛˙
ˇ˙
ˆˆˆ˘˙˚˘˜ˇˆ˚
˘˘†“‘’

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
†˚ˇ“
††‘
˜
SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILEVal Verde Elementary School provides a safe, clean environment for learning through proper facilities 
maintenance and campus supervision. Original school buildings were constructed in 1960; ongoing maintenance ensures school facilities are kept safe and in good working condition and continue to provide adequate space for students and staff. The entire campus underwent comprehensive modernization which 
included the construction of a two-story building to house additional classrooms and administrative offices.
The campus features vegetable gardens maintained by students as a component of their science curriculum.   2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Addition of a new school garden
Ł Completion of the new libraryŁ Addition of portable classrooms
Ł Installation of asphalt where neededŁ Installation of cattle gatesŁ Installation of concrete and drainage systems where needed2019-20 Campus Improvements in Progress:Ł Painting of the exterior of the campusŁ Installation of flooring in the MPRSUPERVISION AND SAFETYEach morning as students arrive on campus, a district security agent, the principal, assistant principal, and assigned teachers are strategically located on the playground and in the parking lot to monitor student activity and behavior. During 
recess and lunch, the principal, assistant principal, 
and district security agent monitor student behavior and activities in the cafeteria and on the playground. When students are dismissed at the end of the day, the district security agency, 
principal, assistant principal, and all teachers ensure a safe and orderly departure.Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers or to participate in school events. To maintain a safe 
and secure environment, all parents and visitors 
are required to check in at the school office upon 
arrival and present valid picture identification, 
obtain and wear a visitor™s badge, and then return 
to the school office upon departure. Val Verde 
Elementary utilizes the Raptor system, where all 
visitors are required to swipe their I.D. in order to 
print a visitors badge with their picture on it. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝

ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝˙†˛““˝“
˙˚˙†˛““˝“
˙š˚“˝“˙€“˙ˇ“
•˙““
˙–˛‘
–˘‘˝˛˝
—˘ƒˇ˝˚˙š
š˚“˚˙š
˙
‡⁄˚˝˙‹›˙š
†˚˝˚˙š
˘˚˙–˛‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
Val Verde Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SCHOOL INSPECTIONSVal Verde Elementary School and the Val Verde 
Unified School District™s Maintenance and 
Operations Department (M&O) work together to ensure student safety and uphold high cleaning standards. M&O supervisors and school administration inspect facilities on a continual basis to identify and resolve concerns in a proactive and 
timely manner. The most recent facilities inspection 
at Val Verde Elementary School took place on 
July 15, 2019. Schools are required by state law 
to report the condition of their facilities; the School 
Facility Good Repair Status table illustrated in this report identifies the state-required inspection areas and discloses the operational status in each of those areas. During fiscal year 2019-20, all 
restrooms were fully functional and available for 
student use at the time of the inspection.SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for Val Verde Elementary School in 
collaboration with local agencies and the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 requirements.  The Val 
Verde Unified School District partners with Hour-
Zero for school emergency response planning, management, consulting, and training. Hour-Zero  
specialists support district and school staff with 
the ongoing development of a comprehensive 
emergency preparedness program to address 
critical components of emergency response planning and compliance with federal and state requirements.Components of Val Verde Elementary™s safety plan 
include child abuse reporting procedures, teacher notification of dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival 
and departure from school, sexual harassment 
policy, dress code policy, and bully prevention 
policy. The school™s most current safety plan was 
reviewed, updated, and shared with school staff 
in December 2019.  Every staff member receives 
a portfolio which outlines their individual role and responsibilities during an emergency situation. MAINTENANCE & REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s maintenance 
department work together to ensure playing fields, classrooms, and campus grounds are well-maintained and kept safe and functioning 
for students, staff, and visitors. Maintenance 
and Operations (M&O) continues to employ 
an electronic work order process to facilitate and improve services to Val Verde Elementary 
School.  Teachers and school staff communicate 
unscheduled maintenance needs, urgent repairs, or special projects to designated custodial and office 
support staff who prepare and submit work orders 
to M&O for resolution. Emergency situations are immediately resolved either by the school custodian or district maintenance staff.   
DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time day custodian, one full-time mid-
day custodian, one full-time evening custodian and a team of groundskeepers are assigned to 
Val Verde Elementary School and work closely 
with the principal for routine maintenance, daily custodial duties, and special events. The principal 
and day custodian communicate daily to discuss campus cleaning needs and safety concerns. Every morning before school begins, the day custodian inspects facilities for safety hazards, graffiti, and 
other conditions that require immediate attention or 
removal prior to students and staff entering school 
grounds. Custodians check restrooms frequently as a proactive measure to keep restrooms fully stocked, safe, and sanitary.



˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˚˛ˇ˘ˆ˛


†“
Custodians are responsible for cleaning campus grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and common areas to ensure facilities remain in good working condition, clean, and safe for students, staff, and visitors.  The 
custodians are required to inspect restrooms a minimum of two times a day and subsequently document 
restroom inspections in their daily inspection log. All custodians follow approved district standards and 
procedures for routine custodial functions and campus maintenance. The groundskeeper is responsible for 
general gardening and maintenance work such as trash and debris removal, landscaping care, irrigation system maintenance, and playing field maintenance. Each custodian is provided one week of intensive training upon employment.  Thereafter, training is 
coordinated by district maintenance supervisors and custodial staff meetings are held twice annually. 
Training activities in use of equipment and safety procedures are led by district risk management 
representatives, vendors, and department supervisors. The district™s Operations Supervisor visits Val 
Verde Elementary monthly to review custodial performance, discuss campus maintenance needs with the 
principal, evaluate conditions of the school facility, and follow up on outstanding work order requests.
CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGA safe, clean school and an effective learning program provide the basis for Val Verde Elementary School™s 
discipline program. School staff support an environment that teaches students, through the daily curriculum, 
the skills to resolve conflicts and take responsibility for their decisions. The schoolwide discipline plan 
focuses on a positive approach to managing  disruptive behavior; students are given the opportunity to learn from their mistakes and take responsibility in making good choices in an effort to take an active role in 
changing their behavior.
Val Verde Elementary School utilizes Tiers I, II, and III of Positive Behavior Intervention and Support System 
(PBIS) to promote a safe and positive school climate that is conductive to student learning. Through the 
Positive Behavior Support System, our school community will provide intentional structures for student success through positive behavior expectations.Teachers follow grade level classroom management plans in alignment with schoolwide discipline policies. 
Each teacher has developed individual classroom incentive programs for behavior and academics. At the 
beginning of the school year, school rules, district policies, and academic expectations are (1) outlined in the 
student handbook (provided in both English and Spanish), and (2) repeated in grade level letters/packets addressing student discipline policies, and 3) discussed in the classroom. Student recognition assemblies, monthly spirit rallies, weekly bulletins, and grade level assemblies provide opportunities for school staff to 
remind students  to conduct themselves in a safe, responsible, and courteous manner.
Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the classroom when students are disruptive or demonstrating 
poor citizenship. When students continue having difficulty following school rules, teachers refer the student 
to the principal  or assistant principal for further intervention. Consequences and disciplinary action are based upon the student™s past behavior trend and severity of infraction. Discipline measures are consistently 
applied in a fair and consistent manner. 
Val Verde Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2019-20 school year, teachers also 
had the opportunity to participate in the following professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes new 
teachers and provides intensive training to help them experience success in their new classrooms. For ongoing professional guidance, the district supports new and veteran teachers in developing 
their teaching skills. California Teachers Induction 
(CTID) program, a state-sponsored program, is designed for first- and second-year credentialed 
teachers and provides skills assistance over a two-year period. The Peer Assistance and Review 
program is designed to improve the education of students and increase the classroom performance of teachers, targeting both new and veteran 
teachers. Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. New 
teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher 
leaders, administrators, and support staff are 
encouraged to participate in workshops sponsored by the district and Riverside County Office of 
Education. Professional and subject-specific offerings are consistent with the California State 
Standards. Special education staff, resource specialist staff, 
bilingual aides, and instructional aides receive customized training to support the district™s 
educational programs and develop strategies to increase effectiveness in teaching practices. 
Classified support staff receive job-related 
training from department supervisors and district representatives; training activities and workshops are designed to enhance and extend job performance. Long-term substitute teachers may 
be encouraged to participate in site-sponsored 
activities to enhance their understanding of Val 
Verde Unified School District™s curriculum and 
classroom management practices.SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Val Verde Elementary is a 
responsibility shared among the principal, assistant principal, teachers, and parents.  The school™s 
leadership team, grade level teams, program facilitators, and School Site Council share in the decision-making and administrative processes to 
create an effective, safe, and nurturing learning 
environment.The school™s leadership team, comprised of the 
principal, assistant principal, instructional coach, department leads, and grade level chairs, meets monthly to 1) collaboratively address practices to improve instruction and excellence in education and 2) evaluate school programs through staff 
feedback and results from data analysis. Team 
members are responsible for supporting the principal in leading program implementation within their areas of responsibility and serving as a liaison to their respective teams.The School Site Council (SSC), consisting of school staff, and parents, is a major governing 
body that meets monthly to address school programs, discuss progress in meeting school goals, and serve as a liaison between the community and school administration. On an Staff members frequently reward and encourage 
students exhibiting positive behavior. Awards 
assemblies are held to recognize three students from each classroom who have shown outstanding 
academic achievement, citizenship, and good attendance. Qualifying first through sixth grade 
students are recognized for Honor Roll and 
Principal™s Honor Roll placement at the grading 
period. At the end of the year, students meeting 
perfect attendance criteria earn special prizes.CHARACTER EDUCATIONVal Verde Elementary implements the Positive 
Behavior Intervention and Support (PBIS) system 
schoolwide. There are posters of the schoolwide 
expectation throughout campus to remind all 
students of what their expectations.Val Verde Elementary promotes a college going 
culture and has each classroom adopt a college and learns about it. College pendants and photos are posted throughout the campus in order to get 
students excited about their college future.ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESStudents have the opportunity to participate in extracurricular activities to develop personal interests and talents beyond the classroom environment. Activities offered at Val Verde 
Elementary include: GATE; High Achievers 
Academy; Masters™ Work (famous artists), 
Leadership class, school band, and middle school sports (flag football, cross country, soccer, girls 
volleyball, etc.) At the end of the sports season, the 
All Star teams compete against the other school at a district level. Students in the GATE program 
compete with students from four other schools in art, science, math, and academic decathlon.  ˜˚˛˝
˛˜˚˙˛
˙˙ˆˇ˝˘˜
˜˝
˙˛˝
˙˙˝˜˙
˝
˘˝˜
˝˜˜
ˇ˝˘˜
˜˝
˙˛˝
˙˙˝
˙˝
˙˘˝˜
˝˛˙
˝˜
ˇ˝
˜˝˜˜
˛˝˜˛
˙˝˜˙
˝
˙˘˝˜˛
˝˜˜
˝˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

†

‘’
€
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
CLASS SIZEThe Class Size Distribution table in this report illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each grade level, the average class size, and the number 
of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 
students, and 33 or more students. CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement activities at Val Verde Unified School District are 
aligned to the California State Standards. The 
district™s Educational Services Department selects 
staff development concentrations based on principal 
feedback, teacher survey results, California Common Core State Standards, district benchmark 
assessment results, and state standardized test results. During the 2018-19 school year, Val Verde 
Elementary School held staff development training 
focused on:Ł Close ReadingŁ Close Writing
Ł Common Core State StandardsŁ Conceptual Math Training
Ł Depth of KnowledgeŁ Elementary AVID
Ł Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS)Ł Project Based LearningŁ Step Up to Writing
Ł Technology Training
Ł Units of StudyDuring the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 school years, Val Verde Unified School District provided 
professional development on the following topics: Val Verde Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
of the regular school day, students may receive 
individual and/or small group instruction from special 
education staff in the Learning Center. A District 
Program Specialist meets with special education 
teachers regularly to provide support and assistance 
in developing student teaching schedules and allocating staff resources.
Each student is provided instruction based upon their IEP, which is reviewed and updated annually 
by the school™s IEP teams. The IEP ensures that 
students with disabilities have equal access to core 
curriculum and educational opportunities and is used 
to coordinate specially-designed instruction based 
upon individual academic, social, and behavior 
needs.  ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of Val Verde Elementary™s teachers are certified 
and trained to provide instruction for students 
identified as English Learners (EL). Beginning level EL students receive English Language Development 
(ELD) instruction by their class teacher for 30 minutes a day as a supplement to their regular 
language arts curriculum. Using specially-designed materials, ELD instruction focuses on reading development, verbal language development, and vocabulary building. Bilingual aides collaborate with class teachers to provide small group and individual support based upon student needs. As students 
increase fluency in the English language, Val Verde 
Elementary School continues to monitor student performance through ELPAC results, benchmark 
assessments, and classroom observation to adjust 
instruction as needed to ensure continued success in acquiring the English language and proficiency in reading/language arts.  GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONVal Verde Elementary School offers a Gifted and 
Talented Education program for students who have 
been recognized as high achievers by their teachers and through district testing. Both GATE and non-
GATE high achievers are clustered by grade level 
to receive accelerated, differentiated instruction that 
offers more depth and complexity throughout the 
curriculum. GATE students are invited to participate 
in after-school activities focusing on theme-based 
projects.INTERVENTION PROGRAMSVal Verde Elementary School supports intervention 
programs to meet the needs of those students not meeting state proficiency standards in reading, language arts, and math. Student Success Teams 
comprised of school administrators, teachers, and 
parents work together to identify individualized intervention strategies for and monitor progress of students having difficulty with academic or social 
development. Formal intervention programs include:annual basis, the SSC is responsible for reviewing and approving the school site plan, safety plan, and budget.INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Val Verde Unified School District 
are aligned to the California State Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected from the state™s most recent list of standards-
based materials and adopted by the State Board of Education. Instructional materials for grades 9-12 are standards-based and approved by the district™s 
Board of Education.  On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified 
School District™s Board of Education held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks 
and instructional materials have been provided to students. The Board of Education adopted 
Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies as required by Education Code §60119 1) that textbooks 
and instructional materials were provided to all students, including English learners, in the district 
to the extent that each pupil has a standards-
aligned textbook or instructional materials, or both, to use in class and to take home, 2) sufficient 
textbooks and instructional materials were provided to each student, including English learners, that are aligned to the academic content standards 
and are consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks in math, science, history-social science, and English/language 
arts, including the English language development 
component of an adopted program, 3) sufficient 
textbooks or instructional materials were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign language or health classes, and 4) sufficient laboratory science 
equipment was available for science laboratory classes offered in grades 9-12 inclusive. Within 
a six-week period prior to adoption, parents may preview recommended instructional materials at the district office or the school™s office.
In addition to the core subject areas, districts are 
required to disclose in their SARCs the sufficiency 
of instructional materials used for its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 2019-20 school year, Val Verde Unified School District 
certifies that each student, including English learners, enrolled in a visual/performing arts class has been provided with a textbook or supplemental materials to use in class and to take home. These materials comply with the California State Standards.SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the California State Standards and approved by the State Board of Education. Every child receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned core program. Val Verde Elementary School structures 
its educational program so that all students receive 
instruction appropriate to their learning level. To 
ensure the success of every student, teachers use a variety of instructional techniques using research-based instructional materials and strategies.SPECIAL EDUCATIONSpecial education students are mainstreamed into the general education classroom based upon their IEP (Individual Education Plan) 
and provided instruction in the least restrictive environment. Special education teachers, special education aides, and general education teachers collaboratively utilize a team-oriented approach 
to provide maximum levels of instruction in the general education environment. For a portion 
Ł Certificated teachers provided tutoring before 
and after school. Instruction focuses on  reading 
and math skills development for students who are 
performing at the Basic level and need additional support to achieve proficiency.
Ł Summer Reading Bootcamp for 1st & 2nd grade.Ł THINK Together: voluntary after-school program 
provided five days a week. Students are engaged in a highly structured program that provides 
homework assistance, tutoring, enrichment, 
recreational activities, and sports.  The program is 
offered daily after school until 6:00 p.m.
Ł Summer Parent Workshop for kindergarten 
parentsŁ Istation: For K-4th grade, computer based games for intervention on reading, math, and writingŁ Iready: For 5th and 6th grade, computer based 
games for intervention on reading, math, and writingŁ Teachers provide daily intervention in ELA and 
math to students who are not meeting grade level standards.PROFESSIONAL STAFFTEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, Val Verde 
Elementary School had 30 teachers who met all credential requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number 
of teachers at both the school and district who are 
1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to 
the number of positions filled by teachers who lack 
legal authorization to teach that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚ˆ˘ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘
˙ˇˇ˚˛ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙ˇ˚ˆ˙
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘˘˘

“ˆ
“˘“ˆ
˙˘
‘ˆ’
ˇ˘“ˆˇ
˘˘ˇ˘
‡˘˘…
‘ˇˇˆ—ˇ˘
˘ƒ˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘⁄˘˘
›˘“ˆ˘
‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‰ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ
Val Verde Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, 
nurses, health technicians, and special education service providers. Through close collaboration, 
this expert team is instrumental in improving student attendance and achievement through the identification, referral, and remediation of health and/or emotional concerns. The psychologist assists with academic, social, and emotional issues; provides assessments to 
determine eligibility for Special Education services; 
and facilitates coordination of Individual Education Plans (IEP). The school nurse conducts health 
screening programs. Health technicians provide 
basic aid. As a participating member of the Riverside 
County Special Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), 
Val Verde Unified School District and Val Verde 
Elementary School have access to a full complement 
of professional resources and services to meet the individual needs of its students with disabilities. SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATAQUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at http://
dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about Val Verde Elementary School 
and comparisons of the school to the district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest provides reports 
for school accountability, including but not limited 
to, CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing statistics.
PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access Val Verde Elementary School™s 
SARC and access the internet at any of the county™s 
public libraries.  The closest library to Val Verde 
Elementary School is Perris Branch Public Library located at 163 E. San Jacinto  Avenue, Perris, CA 
92570.Perris Branch Public Library - (951) 657-2358Hours: Sunday 1-5            Monday 10-6            Tuesday-Wednesday 12-8
            Thursday-Saturday 10-6
Number of computers available: 17Number of printers available: 1˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˘
ˆ˙˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
ˆˇ˜ˆ˝˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘—
ˇ˜ˇˇ˝–
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
ƒ——⁄
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˝

˝

†ˇˇ˝

’˝

šˇ

’ˇ

ˆ˘ˇˇ

•˝‡

˜

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙˝
˙
ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙˙

˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

Val Verde Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT EXPENDIT
URESSALARY & BUDGET COMPARI
SONState law requires comparative salary and budget 
information to be reported to the general public. For comparison purposes, the State Department of Education has provided average salary data 
from school districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state.EXPENDIT
URES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Verde Unified 
School District spent an average of $11,189 of 
total general funds to educate each student (based 
on 2017-18 audited financial statements and in accordance with calculations defined in Education Code §41372). The table in this report 1) compares 
the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted 
(basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the district and throughout the 
state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at 
the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ 
and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect the direct cost of educational 
services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other 
expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, state, 
and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Ongoing & Major Maintenance Account
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education









˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
†˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
“˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
‘’
•
•
•
•
“˘ˇ˘…˝˙˘—
•
•
•
•
˘ˇ˘…ƒˇ—
⁄’⁄⁄‹
⁄’



†
‰‘’⁄‰‘–›’–€€–€’‹›−
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
