Sierra Vista Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SIERRA VISTA ELEMENTARY
 SCHOOL20300 Sherman Road, Perris, CA 92571
Phone: (951) 443-2430 FAX: (951) 443-2435
Tara Kim, Principal
e-mail: tkim@valverde.edu                     PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome! I am Tara Kim, 
proud principal of Sierra Vista 
Elementary School, home of 
the cubs! I am thrilled to lead 
the amazing staff here at Sierra 
Vista!
I am energized and committed 
to making a positive difference 
in your children™s lives. My priority is to ensure 
that our students have a safe, positive learning 
environment where the quality of 21st century 
instruction is second to none. Our staff will 
continue to participate in ongoing professional 
development and deliver research-based, 
relevant instruction to students. We are 
committed to meeting the individual needs of all 
students™ academic learning styles and social-
emotional well-being.At Sierra Vista, we are proud to be an 
Advancement Via Individual Determination 
(AVID) elementary school. The AVID program 
supports our purpose, values, and goals in 
preparing ALL our students to be future ready 
through college and career readiness. AVID 
instruction is embedded into daily lessons that 
build a college going culture, organizational 
skills and focused note-taking from kindergarten 
through 6th grade.Our success is dependent on a strong home-
school relationship. We value and encourage 
participation in your child™s education. Sierra 
Vista has a very active Parent Teacher 
Organization (PTO), English Learner Advisory 
Council (ELAC), School Site Council (SSC), in 
addition to many other volunteer opportunities. 
As always, stay in communication with your 
child™s teacher(s) for additional opportunities. 
Families are always welcome and your continued 
support is appreciated! Thank you for entrusting me with your amazing children! I am confident that together, we will 
make wonderful things happen for the students 
at Sierra Vista!
On behalf of the Sierra Vista Staff, we look 
forward to a terrific school year.
SCHOOL MISSIONSierra Vista Elementary will produce Future 
Ready students by engaging all learners in 
meaningful experiences that meet the highest 
educational and ethical standards in a positive, 
caring, and collaborative environment supported 
through partnerships with families, businesses, community, and higher education.
SCHOOL VISIONSierra Vista Elementary staff work collaboratively 
to create an environment that empowers 
students with the knowledge necessary to 
become lifelong learners and productive citizens 
in the 21st century.
DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in 
the heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 
72 miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the 
district and its communities are March Air Force 
Base and the Lake Perris recreational area.  
During the 2018-19 school year, the district™s 
schools served more than 20,200 students residing in the rural and suburban communities of Perris, Moreno Valley, and portions of 
unincorporated Riverside County.  The district 
currently operates a preschool, 12 elementary 
schools, 4 middle schools, 3 comprehensive 
high schools, a student success academy, a 
virtual academy, and a continuation high school.  
SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONDuring the 2018-19 school year, Sierra Vista 
Elementary served 1,032 students in grades K-6. Student enrollment included 11.7% in 
special education, 22.6% qualifying for English 
learner support, and 82.5% qualifying for free or 
reduced-price meals.  Sierra Vista Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘
˘“


˘’
€

˘
˘•
˘‡
…ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

…

€˚ˇ„–

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
ˇ
”ˇ
‚˙

…ˇ™ˇ
”

HONORS2019 PBIS Silver Coalition Award
Common Sense Media Award
Core District One Year of 
High Impact in Math & ELA2018-19 Certified School - Digital Citizenship2013 Golden Bell Award in Engagement 
through Technology
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP). The following components of this 
SARC address some of the priorities identified 
in the District™s LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are 
appropriately assigned and fully credentialed 
in the subject areas and for the pupils they are teaching; pupils have access to standards-
aligned Instructional materials and school 
facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks 
chart; and School Facilities & Maintenance, 
including the Campus Description and School 
Facility Good Repair Status charts.Conditions of Learning (Implementation of State 
Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  Implementation of academic content and performance standards adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report Card.
Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts 
to seek parent input in decision making, 
promotion of parent participation in programs for 
unduplicated pupils and special need subgroups.  
Covered in Parent Involvement.Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score on 
Academic Performance Index, share of pupils 
that are college and career ready, share of 
English learners that become English proficient, 
English learner reclassification rate, share of 
pupils that pass Advanced Placement exams 
with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils determined 
prepared for college by the Early Assessment 
Program.  Covered in California Assessment of 
Student Performance and Progress, including the 
CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State Priority 
5:  School attendance rates, chronic absenteeism 
rates, middle school dropout rates, high school dropout rates, and high school graduation rates.   
Covered in Dropout Rates, including the Dropout 
chart; and Graduation Rates, including the 
Graduation Rate chart for high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, and 
parents and teachers on the sense of safety and school connectedness.  Covered in Discipline 
& Climate for Learning, including Suspension & 
Expulsion chart; and School Site Safety Plan.Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course of 
study that includes all of the subject areas.   Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report Card.
Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in 
Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness 
Test chart.
PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to school 
and student success. Sierra Vista Elementary 
School offers a wide variety of opportunities 
for parents to support the school and their 
child™s academic efforts through volunteering or 
simply attending special events and activities. 
Volunteers are required to obtain TB testing 
and fingerprint/background clearance.
 Parents seeking more information about getting involved in Sierra Vista Elementary™s learning community 
may contact the school secretary at (951) 443-
2430.Volunteer to Help
Ł In the school™s office
Ł In the classroomŁ In the libraryŁ FundraisingŁ With take-home projectsJoin Leadership GroupsŁ African American Advisory Council
Ł District English Learner Advisory Council
Ł School Site CouncilŁ English Learner Advisory Council
Ł Parent Advisory Committee
Ł Parent Teacher Organization (PTO)
Attend Special Events & Workshops
Ł Back to School NightŁ Family math and literacy nightsŁ Family fun nightsŁ GATE Advisory meetings
Ł Parent education workshopsŁ Parent conferencesŁ PTO-sponsored events
Ł Student performancesŁ Title I Parent Meeting
School-to-home communication is provided 
in both English and Spanish. Parent Link is 
an automated parent notification system used 
to quickly forward important announcements 
via telephone messages. The school website 
features a calendar, general information, 
teacher web pages, and PTO news. Flyers 
and letters are distributed as needed to relay 
reminders and announcements. Some teachers 
utilize the Class DoJo app to communicate with 
parents regarding events and activities. Parents 
may contact teachers and administration through email and can stay up to date on their 
students™ information through the Val Verde 
App.STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT BENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student learning. District benchmark assessments 
supplement multiple measures of assessment 
to identify students™ mastery of content, depth 
of knowledge, and skills. District benchmark 
assessments are aligned to the California State 
Standards and are comprised of both formative and summative assessments given in math, reading, and language arts. During the 2018-
19 school year, all students in grades 1-5 were 
assessed multiple times utilizing a system of 
short-cycle formative assessments to identify content area mastery and specific gaps in the 
learning process.  Students in grades 7-12 
were evaluated quarterly throughout the year to 
determine course grades and levels of content 
mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used to 
identify student progress, understanding of 
state content standards, and mastery of subject area matter/concepts. These measures include: 
state summative assessments, benchmark assessments, grade level/department common 
assessments, classroom observations, teacher-
created assessments, adaptive diagnostic 
assessments in reading and math, and early 
indicators of reading assessments. Collectively, 
the benchmark assessments and multiple 
measures aid teachers in 1) identifying areas 
where instruction may or may not be effective; 
2) guiding classroom instruction practices and 
strategies; and 3) identifying students who need 
Sierra Vista Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
targeted academic assistance or intervention. Teachers and administrators are able to pinpoint any 
deficiencies or gaps in the learning process, identifying very specific skill sets and subject area 
content that needs to be retaught, reinforced, or revised to ensure every student obtains a solid 
foundation for future success in learning.CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESSThe California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most significant 
cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs.  
CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the Common 
Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well students are mastering 
California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to 
grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/
Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test 
items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core 
State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown 
only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the 
California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˘
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘


˝˘ˆ•˘˘ˆ˚šˆ˝˛
……………………………………………………˘
……………………………………………………‘˚
……………………………………………………–ˆˆƒ˝˛˘˚


–˝⁄˝˘ˆˆ€ˆ•˙
……………………………………………………‹˛


˜⁄˚ˆˆ−


˝˙˙‰ˆ„˝˘˛



ˇ›ˆ


˛ˆ⁄˛›ˆ„˛


‘˛ˆ‚›
……………………………………………………˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
ˇˇ˚˚
††“
˜
PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, Sierra Vista 
Elementary School is required by the state to 
administer a physical fitness test to all students 
in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test 
measures each student™s ability to complete six 
fitness tasks in six major areas. Students that either meet or exceed the standards in all six 
fitness areas are considered to be physically 
fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative 
district and state results can be found at the 
CDE™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILESierra Vista Elementary School provides a 
safe, clean environment for learning through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Original school buildings were 
constructed in 2003; ongoing maintenance ensures school facilities are kept safe and in 
good working condition and continue to provide 
adequate space for students and staff. Sierra 
Vista Elementary utilizes Chromebooks for all 
grade levels and are at a 1:1 ratio.˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ
˚˛˝˚˚
Sierra Vista Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Upgrades to the front lobby for security and   safety purposesŁ Painting of the exterior campus wideŁ Painting of the inside of the multipurpose room
Ł Remodeling projects to the libraryŁ Installation of new drinking fountainsŁ Installation of water bottle filling stationŁ Addition of a new planter with shade trees
Ł Repavement of parking lotŁ Installation of a gateŁ Installation of blackout shades in all   classrooms2019-20 Campus Improvements in Progress:Ł Addition of lunch area seating
Ł Addition of asphalt where needed
Ł Creation of a school garden with the   partnership of the City of Perris˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝
ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝†˙“˛‘‘˝‘
˙˚˙“˛‘‘˝‘
˙€˚‘˝‘˙‘˙ˇ‘˚•
‘‘
˙–˛š
–˘š˝˛˝
—˘ƒˇ˝˚˙€
˙
‡⁄˚˝˙‹›˙€
€˚‘˚˙€
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
SUPERVISION AND SAFETYEach morning as students arrive on campus, supervision aides/administrators and the 
security guard greet students at the main gate 
and teachers supervise the playground. During 
recess, supervision aides and the security 
guard monitor playground activities. During 
lunch, supervision aides and the security guard 
share the responsibility of monitoring students 
in the cafeteria and on the playground. When 
students are dismissed at the end of the day, 
the principal and the security guard circulate throughout the campus while the assistant 
principal and teachers on duty monitor the front 
exit areas to ensure students leave campus in 
a safe and orderly manner. The security guard 
is on campus for the whole day monitoring 
student behavior. 
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain a 
safe and secure environment, all parents and 
visitors are required to check in at the school 
office upon arrival and present valid picture 
identification, which is scanned through the 
Raptor System. They are required to return to 
the school office upon departure.
urgent repairs, or special projects to designated 
custodial and office support staff who prepare 
and submit work orders to M&O for resolution. Emergency situations are immediately resolved either by the school custodian or district 
maintenance staff.   
DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time day custodian, one swing shift 
custodian, one full-time evening custodian, 
and a groundskeeper are assigned to Sierra 
Vista Elementary School and work closely 
with the principal for routine maintenance, 
daily custodial duties, and special events. The 
principal and custodians communicate daily as 
needed via handheld radio to discuss campus 
cleaning needs and safety concerns. Every 
morning before school begins, the custodian 
inspects facilities for safety hazards, graffiti, 
and other conditions that require immediate 
attention or removal prior to students and staff 
entering school grounds. Custodians check 
restrooms throughout the day as a proactive 
measure to keep restrooms fully stocked, safe, and sanitary.
Custodians are responsible for cleaning 
campus grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and 
common areas to ensure facilities remain in 
good working condition, clean, and safe for 
students, staff, and visitors.  The custodians 
are required to inspect restrooms a minimum 
of two times a day and subsequently document 
restroom inspections in their daily inspection 
log. All custodians follow approved district 
standards and procedures for routine custodial 
functions and campus maintenance. The 
groundskeeper is responsible for general 
gardening and maintenance work such as 
trash and debris removal, landscaping care, 
irrigation system maintenance, and playing field 
maintenance. Each custodian is provided one week of 
intensive training upon employment.  Thereafter, 
training is coordinated by district maintenance 
supervisors and custodial staff meetings are 
held twice annually. Training activities in use 
of equipment and safety procedures are led 
by district risk management representatives, 
vendors, and department supervisors. The 
district™s Operations Supervisor visits Sierra 
Vista Elementary School monthly to review 
custodial performance, discuss campus 
˜˚˛˝˙˜ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘




ˇ˙˛
˜˚ˇ˘˙˛
˘˚˙˛˛
˙ˆˇ˘ˆ
˙˛ˇ˛˚˛
˙ˇ
ˇˇ
†ˇ



“‘
˛˝˝˛˘˚
˛˘˚ˇ
˘˙ˇ
˛˘˙˙˙
ˆ˙˙˙ˆ
€˘ˆ˘˛ˆ
˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝ˇˆˆ
˘˘ˇ˘
˝
˛˘˝ˇˆˆˇ˘
˛˘˘
SCHOOL INSPECTIONSSierra Vista Elementary School and the Val 
Verde Unified School District™s Maintenance and 
Operations Department (M&O) work together to 
ensure student safety and uphold high cleaning 
standards. M&O supervisors and school 
administration inspect facilities on a continual 
basis to identify and resolve concerns in a 
proactive and timely manner. The most recent 
facilities inspection at Sierra Vista Elementary 
School took place on July 15, 2019. Schools 
are required by state law to report the condition 
of their facilities. During fiscal year 2019-20, all 
restrooms were fully functional and available for 
student use at the time of the inspection.SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was 
developed for Sierra Vista Elementary School in 
collaboration with local agencies and the district 
office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 requirements.  
The Val Verde Unified School District partners 
with Hour-Zero for school emergency response 
planning, management, consulting, and training. 
Hour-Zero  specialists support district and 
school staff with the ongoing development of 
a comprehensive emergency preparedness 
program to address critical components of 
emergency response planning and compliance 
with federal and state requirements.Components of Sierra Vista Elementary™s 
school safety plan include child abuse reporting 
procedures, teacher notification of dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, procedures for safe arrival and departure from 
school, sexual harassment policy, dress code 
policy, and bully prevention policy. The school™s 
most current safety plan was reviewed, updated, 
and shared with school staff in the February 
2019. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance department work together to 
ensure playing fields, classrooms, and campus 
grounds are well-maintained and kept safe 
and functioning for students, staff, and visitors. 
Maintenance and Operations (M&O) continues 
to employ an electronic work order process to facilitate and improve services to Sierra Vista 
Elementary School.  Teachers and school staff 
communicate unscheduled maintenance needs, 
Sierra Vista Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
maintenance needs with the principal, evaluate 
conditions of the school facility, and follow up on 
outstanding work order requests.CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTCLASS SIZE The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students.DISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGStudents at Sierra Vista Elementary School 
are guided by specific rules and classroom 
expectations that promote respect, cooperation, courtesy, and acceptance of others. The main 
focus of the discipline program from the very 
first day of school is to help students develop 
an understanding of regular procedures 
and routines. Through consistent positive 
reinforcement of what students are expected to do throughout their day, disruptive behaviors 
are kept to a minimum.Students at Sierra Vista Elementary are 
supported with Positive Behavior Intervention Supports (PBIS). PBIS is a process for creating 
safer and more effective schools. It is a systems 
approach to enhancing the capacity of schools to educate all children by developing research-
based, schoolwide, and classroom behavior support systems. The process focuses on improving 
a school™s ability to  each and support positive behavior for all students. Rather than a prescribed 
program, PBIS provides systems for schools to design, implement, and evaluate effective school-
wide, classroom,  on-classroom, and student specific plans. PBIS includes school-wide procedures 
and processes  ntended for all students and all staff in all settings. PBIS is not a program or a 
curriculum. It is a  eam-based process for systemic problem solving, planning, and evaluation. It is 
an approach to  reating a safe and productive learning environment where teachers can teach and 
all students  can learn.Building character is an important part of the program at Sierra Vista Elementary School. Using 
Boys Town, Character Counts, and Capturing Kids Hearts programs, students are provided a 
foundation on which to build positive behavior and values through daily lessons. The Character 
Pledge is recited daily as a morning routine. Character Education is embedded into daily activities 
and reinforced through praise. Teachers deliver a series of Positive Action lessons which actively 
engage students in understanding and acquiring the tools to make good choices at school and at 
home. Students who exhibit good behavior receive Cub Cash and can turn it in to claim prizes and 
can earn incentive parties.Each student receives a student/parent handbook (published in both English and Spanish) which 
outlines behavior expectations and the schoolwide discipline plan. In alignment with the schoolwide 
discipline plan, teachers have implemented grade-appropriate classroom management policies and 
incentive programs for student conduct and academics. At the beginning of the school year, teachers review student behavior responsibilities and discipline 
policies as part of the classroom orientation process. During the first week of school, students 
are escorted on a tour of the campus to discuss the rules and safety practices associated with 
each area. Students are reminded as needed to conduct themselves in a safe, responsible, and 
respectful manner. Grade-level assemblies addressing discipline and anti-bullying are held at the 
beginning school year and repeated throughout the school year as the need arises.A progressive discipline approach is taken when students are having difficulty following school rules 
or disrupting classroom instruction. Teachers refer students to the principal for further intervention 
which may include a phone call to the child™s parent(s)/guardian(s). Consideration of the  severity 
and nature of each infraction is taken when consequences for unacceptable conduct are determined. 
Discipline is consistently managed in a fair, firm manner and follows the schoolwide discipline matrix. 
Staff members frequently reward and encourage students exhibiting positive behavior, academic 
achievement, and improvement. Monthly assemblies recognize outstanding character and academic 
achievement. Trimester award ceremonies are held to reward students for academic achievement, 
perfect attendance, and outstanding citizenship. The PTO provides special prizes and rewards for 
award recipients. At the end of each trimester, an awards ceremony is held to recognize students 
for their outstanding efforts in academics and maintaining perfect attendance. Students achieving 
a perfect attendance record and completing their homework are eligible to participate in a raffle for 
incentive prizes.ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESTeachers collaborate among their grade levels to provide enrichment activities in alignment with 
the school curriculum as well as integrating sports and music related activities into lesson plans. 
Students are encouraged to participate in the THINK Together after-school program for structured 
homework support, tutoring, and recreational activities. Sierra Vista offers a music class for 3rd 
through 5th graders as an elective, and after-school band and sports programs for 6th graders.CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement activities at Val Verde Unified School District are aligned 
to the California California State Standards. The district™s Educational Services Department selects 
staff development concentrations based on principal feedback, teacher survey results, California 
California State Standards, district benchmark assessment results, and state standardized test 
results. During the 2018-19 school year, Sierra Vista Elementary School held staff development focused on:
Ł 21st Century LearningŁ AVID
Ł Capturing Kids HeartsŁ Educational ProtocolsŁ Excellence thru Equity˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ






˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

†
˜˚˛˝
˛˜˚˙˛
˙˙ˆˇ˝˘˜
˜˝
˛˝
˙˝˜
˝
˘˝
˘˝˙˛
˝˜
ˇ˝
˜˝
˛˝
˙˝
˘˝
˘˝
˝˘˙
˝˛
ˇ˝
˜˝
˙˛˝
˙˝˜˙
˝˜
˘˝
˝
˝˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

†

‘’
€

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ


Sierra Vista Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Ł Positive DisciplineŁ Professional Learning Communities (PLC)Ł Response to Intervention (RtI)Ł Science, Technology, Engineering, Art & Math 
Ł Solution Tree PBIS
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention & Support Ł T3 Frameworks
Ł Writing
During the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 
school years, Val Verde Unified School District 
provided professional development on the 
following topics: During the 2019-20 school year, teachers 
also had the opportunity to participate in the 
following professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes 
new teachers and provides intensive training to help them experience success in their 
new classrooms. For ongoing professional 
guidance, the district supports new and veteran teachers in developing their teaching skills. 
California Teacher Induction (CTI) program, 
a state-sponsored program, is designed for 
first- and second-year credentialed teachers 
and provides skills assistance over a two-
year period. The Peer Assistance and Review 
program is designed to improve the education 
of students and increase the classroom 
performance of teachers, targeting both new and 
veteran teachers. Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/
teacher leaders, administrators, and support staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the district and Riverside County 
Office of Education. Professional and subject-
specific offerings are consistent with the 
California California State Standards. Special education staff, resource specialist 
staff, bilingual aides, and instructional aides 
receive customized training to support the 
district™s educational programs and develop 
strategies to increase effectiveness in teaching 
practices. Classified support staff receive job-
related training from department supervisors 
and district representatives; training activities 
and workshops are designed to enhance and 
extend job performance. Long-term substitute teachers may be encouraged to participate 
in site-sponsored activities to enhance their 
understanding of Val Verde Unified School 
District™s curriculum and classroom management 
practices.SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Sierra Vista Elementary School 
is a responsibility shared among administrators, 
teachers, and parents. Principal Tara Kim is 
responsible for the day-to-day operations and 
overall curriculum. The school™s leadership 
team, grade level teams, program facilitators, 
Assistant Principal Billie Kerr-Mosher, site union 
representative, special education representative, a classified staff member, and the School Site 
Council share in the decision-making and 
administrative processes to create an effective, 
safe, and nurturing learning environment. The site union leadership team, comprised of 
the principal, assistant principal, curriculum 
leaders, grade level representatives, special education teacher, and instructional coach, 
meet monthly to collaboratively address and 
resolve issues related to school programs and 
grade level team efforts. Team members are 
responsible for leading program implementation 
in their respective areas of responsibility and serving as a liaison between school 
administration and grade level teams. The School Site Council (SSC), consisting of 
the school principal, teachers, classified staff, 
and parents, is a major governing body that 
meets monthly to address school programs, 
discuss progress in meeting school goals, and serve as a liaison between the community and 
school administration. On an annual basis, the 
SSC is responsible for reviewing and approving 
the school site plan, safety plan, and budget.INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Val Verde Unified School District 
are aligned to the California State Standards. 
Instructional materials for grades K-8 are 
selected from the state™s most recent list of 
standards-based materials and adopted by 
the State Board of Education. Instructional 
materials for grades 9-12 are standards-based and approved by the district™s Board of 
Education. On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified 
School District™s Board of Education held a 
public hearing to certify the extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Board of Education 
adopted Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies 























































˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
Sierra Vista Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
as required by Education Code §60119 that 
1) textbooks and instructional materials were 
provided to all students, including English 
learners, in the district to the extent that each 
pupil has a standards-aligned textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 
and to take home, 2) sufficient textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English learners, that are 
aligned to the academic content standards 
and are consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks in mathematics, 
science, history-social science, and English/
language arts, including the English language 
development component of an adopted 
program, 3) sufficient textbooks or instructional 
materials were provided to each pupil enrolled 
in foreign language or health classes, and 4) 
sufficient laboratory science equipment was 
available for science laboratory classes offered 
in grades 9-12 inclusive. Within a six-week period prior to adoption, parents may preview recommended instructional materials at the 
district office or the school™s office.
In addition to the core subject areas, districts 
are required to disclose in their SARCs the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for 
its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 
2019-20 school year, Val Verde Unified School 
District certifies that each student, including 
English learners, enrolled in a visual/performing 
arts class has been provided with a textbook 
or supplemental materials to use in class and 
to take home. These materials comply with the 
California State Standards.SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the 
California State Standards approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every child receives 
a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned 
core program. Sierra Vista Elementary School 
structures its educational program so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their 
learning level. To ensure the success of every 
student, teachers use a variety of instructional 
techniques using research-based instructional 
materials and strategies.SPECIAL EDUCATIONSpecial education students are mainstreamed 
into the general education classroom based 
upon their IEP (Individual Education Plan) 
and provided instruction in the least restrictive 
environment. Special education teachers, special education aides, and general education 
teachers collaboratively utilize a team-oriented 
approach to provide maximum levels of 
instruction in the general education environment. 
For a portion of the regular school day, students 
may receive individual and/or small group 
instruction from special education staff in the 
Learning Center. A District Program Specialist 
meets with special education teachers regularly 
to provide support and assistance in developing 
student teaching schedules and allocating staff 
resources.Each student is provided instruction based 
upon their IEP, which is reviewed and updated 
annually by the school™s IEP teams. The IEP 
ensures that students with disabilities have 
equal access to core curriculum and educational 
opportunities and is used to coordinate specially-
designed instruction based upon individual 
academic, social, and behavior needs.  ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of Sierra Vista Elementary School™s teachers 
are certified and trained to provide instruction 
for students identified as English Learners (EL). 
Beginning level EL students receive English 
Language Development (ELD) instruction from 
a certificated teacher for 30 minutes a day as a supplement to their regular language arts 
curriculum. ELD Instruction focuses on reading development, verbal language development, 
and vocabulary building. One bilingual aide 
collaborate with class teachers to provide in-
class small group and individual support based 
upon student needs. In some cases, instruction 
may be provided in the student™s native language 
to ensure course concepts and lessons are 
successfully delivered. As students increase 
fluency in the English language, Sierra Vista 
Elementary School continues to monitor student 
performance through benchmark assessments, 
and classroom observation to adjust instruction 
as needed to ensure continued success in 
acquiring the English language and proficiency 
in reading/language arts.  GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONSierra Vista Elementary School offers a Gifted 
and Talented Education program for students 
in grades K-5th who have been recognized as high achievers by their teachers and through 
district testing. GATE students are clustered by 
grade level to receive accelerated, differentiated 
instruction and embedded enrichment activities 
which offer more depth and complexity. 
AVIDSierra Vista Elementary School 
offers the 
Advancement via Individual Determination 
(AVID) program for grades K-5 and as an 
elective for 6th grade students. The program 
targets students with a grade point average ranging from 2.5 to 3.5, and who may be the 
first of their family members to attend college. 
AVID equips students with the skills required 
to be successful in postsecondary education. Communication skills, writing in particular, are 
strongly emphasized. Organizational, study, and 
note-taking skills are key elements of the college 
preparation process.˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˘
˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
ˇ˜ˆˆ˝˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘—
˜˜˜ˇ˝–
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ

——ƒ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
JUNIOR SCHOLARSJunior Scholars is a rigorous pre-AP program 
for sixth grade students thats included as an 
elective course.  Each scholar holds a GPA of 
3.5 or higher without C™s in challenging courses 
designed to prepare them for high school 
Advance Placement courses.  In addition, 
each Scholar volunteers 15 hours in their 
community.  They are required to compete in 
History Day, Spelling Bee, Science Fair, and 
writing competitions.  They are also enrolled in 
the UCR STEM program entitled MESA, where 
they compete in engineering competitions.INTERVENTION PROGRAMSSierra Vista Elementary School supports 
intervention programs to meet the needs of 
those students not meeting state proficiency 
standards in reading, language arts, and math. 
Early Monitoring Teams (EMT)/Response to 
Intervention (RtI) Teams are comprised of 
school administrators, teachers, and parents work together to identify individualized 
intervention strategies for and monitor progress 
of students having difficulty with academic 
or social development. Formal intervention programs include:Ł Universal Access: using monthly district 
assessments to determine proficiency levels, 
students are placed in a homeroom class 
with other students performing at the same 
proficiency level. This model enables teachers 
to deliver a reading and math curriculum that 
closely matches and addresses the needs 
of students as a whole. Student progress 
is evaluated at the end of each month and 
students are regrouped to ensure instruction 
continues at current learning levels.Ł Impact Subs: cover classrooms for teacher to 
provide intervention for students.Ł Impact Tutors: assists students in reading to 
be fluent in reading by the 3rd grade.Ł STEAM: two Saturdays a month students 
are able to come to school to make up missed days.Ł THINK Together: provided after school (on 
school days) and full-time during holidays 
and summer break. This program provides 
homework assistance, crafts, nutritious snacks 
and recreation activities.  Ł Targeted Intervention
Ł Accadience (Grades K-5)
Ł iReady (Grade 6)Sierra Vista Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PROFESSIONAL STAFFTEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, Sierra Vista 
Elementary School had 39 teachers who met all credential requirements in accordance with 
state guidelines.  The chart below identifies 
the number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without 
full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English 
learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; 
and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term 
ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number of 
positions filled by teachers who lack legal 
authorization to teach that grade level, subject 
area, student group, etc.SUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, 
nurses, health technicians, and special 
education service providers. Through close 
collaboration, this expert team is instrumental 
in improving student attendance and achievement through the identification, referral, 
and remediation of health and/or emotional 
concerns. The psychologist assists with academic, social, and emotional issues; provides assessments 
to determine eligibility for Special Education 
services; and facilitates coordination of 
Individual Education Plans (IEP). The school 
nurse conducts health screening programs. 
Health technicians provide basic aid. As a 
participating member of the Riverside County 
Special Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), 
Val Verde Unified School District and Sierra 
Vista Elementary School have access to a full 
complement of professional resources and 
services to meet the individual needs of its 
students with disabilities. 








˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇˇ˘
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
†˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
“‘“’š
€
€
€
€
†˘ˇ˘•˝˙˘‡
’…—€
€
€
€
˘ˇ˘•–ˇ‡
ƒ’⁄ƒ‘—š⁄
“…‹
š‘ƒ…š
š‹

›−‘⁄……−⁄‘−‰‰““š‹−‰‘…⁄“““›‹
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
DISTRICT EXPENDIT
URESSALARY & BUDGET COMPARI
SONState law requires comparative salary and budget 
information to be reported to the general public. 
For comparison purposes, the State Department 
of Education has provided average salary data 
from school districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state.EXPENDIT
URES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Verde Unified 
School District spent an average of $11,189 
of total general funds to educate each student 
(based on 2017-18 audited financial statements 
and in accordance with calculations defined in 
Education Code §41372). The table in this report 1) 
compares the school™s per pupil expenditures from 
unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average 
teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. 
Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.
cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect 
the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and 
construction, and certain other expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, 
state, and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˝

˝

ˇ

†ˇˇ˝

˜
“
‘ˇ
š
ˆ˘ˇˇ

˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
ˇ

˜˝˚˙˝ˆˇ˝˝
˝
Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education 
  IncentiveŁ California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant 
  ProgramŁ College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Ongoing & Major Maintenance Account
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATAQUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional 
information about Sierra Vista Elementary School and comparisons of the school to the district, the 
county, and the state.  DataQuest provides reports for school accountability, including but not limited 
to, CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & Graduation 
Rates, enrollment, and staffing statistics.
PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access Sierra Vista Elementary School™s SARC and access the internet at any of the 
county™s public libraries.  The closest library to Sierra Vista Elementary School is Perris Branch 
Public Library located at 163 E. San Jacinto Avenue, Perris, CA 92570.
Perris Branch Public Library (951) 657-2358Hours: Sunday 1-5; Monday 10-6; Tuesday-Wednesday 12-8; Thursday-Saturday 10-6
Number of computers available: 17Number of printers available: 1