Triple Crown Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in 
the heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 
72 miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the 
district and its communities are March Air Force 
Base and the Lake Perris recreational area.  
During the 2018-19 school year, the district™s 
schools served more than 20,200 students 
residing in the rural and suburban communities 
of Perris, Moreno Valley, and portions of 
unincorporated Riverside County.  The district 
currently operates a preschool, 12 elementary 
schools, 4 middle schools, 3 comprehensive 
high schools, a student success academy, a 
virtual academy, and a continuation high school.  
During the 2018-19 school year, Triple Crown 
Elementary Sc
hool served 1,000 students 
in grades K-5. Student enrollment included 
7.2% in special education, 37.1% qualifying 
for English learner support, and 83.8% qualifying for free or reduced-price meals. 
Triple Crown Elementary opened its doors to 
the community at 
the beginning of the 2006-
07 term. The principal and highly qualified staff 
are committed to building a strong learning 
community focused on high levels of student 
achievement in alignment with the California 
State Standards.˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘†
˘“


˘’
€

˘•
†’’˘š†••
‡ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

‡

€˚ˇ„–

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙

‡ˇ™ˇ
”

ˇ
˙ˆ˚

PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEHere at Triple Crown Elementary, 
we are on the fast track to 
success. It is a pleasure to work 
with all our dedicated staff, motivated scholars, 
and wonderful supportive community members as 
we dive deep into our learning. The staff of TCES 
has established high expectations for ourselves, 
as well as for our scholars, both academically 
and behaviorally. We are committed to ensuring 
our scholars strive for excellence as they work 
towards mastery of their grade level California 
Common Core State Standards. Our teachers 
meet weekly to discuss best practices to ensure 
all scholars learn at high levels. In addition, 
Triple Crown Elementary is an avid elementary 
school. We are committed to ensuring that all of 
our scholars are organized and hold themselves 
accountable for their own academic success. 
What™s more, our scholars engage in 21st century 
learning (the 4 C™s): collaboration, communication, 
creativity, and critical thinking. The 4 C™s are 
essential for our scholars as they make their way 
towards college and career readiness. We are 
dedicated to making triple crown the best school 
in the west. This report will provide an overview of 
the guidelines, programs, and procedures at triple 
crown. #coltswithcollegedreamsMISSION STATEMENT
At Triple Crown Elementary School it is our 
mission to maximize learning opportunities for 
every scholar in a safe, supportive, and caring 
environment. Ensuring that they are equipped 
with the tools necessary to be productive and 
innovative citizens.VISION STATEMENT
We are committed to inspire every scholar, 
every day, to work collaboratively, communicate 
respectfully, and develop the will, skill, and drive 
to be a positive contributor in society.
HONORS2019 PBIS Gold Award
2011 Title I Academic Achievement 
Award Recipient
2009 & 2010 California Business for Education Honor Roll Award
TRIPLE
 CROWN
 ELEMENTARY
 S
CHOOL
530 Orange Avenue, Perris, CA 92571
Phone: (951) 490-0440 FAX: (951) 490-0445
Deni Seagrave, PrincipalEmail: dseagrave@valverde.edu                  Triple Crown Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP). The following components of this 
SARC address some of the priorities identified in the District™s LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are appropriately assigned and fully credentialed 
in the subject areas and for the pupils they are teaching; pupils have access to standards-
aligned Instructional materials and school 
facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks 
chart; and School Facilities & Maintenance, 
including the Campus Description and School 
Facility Good Repair Status charts.Conditions of Learning (Implementation of State 
Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  Implementation of academic content and performance standards 
adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts 
to seek parent input in decision making, 
promotion of parent participation in programs 
for unduplicated pupils and special need 
subgroups.  Covered in Parent Involvement.Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score 
on Academic Performance Index, share of 
pupils that are college and career ready, 
share of English learners that become English proficient, English learner reclassification rate, 
share of pupils that pass Advanced Placement 
exams with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils 
determined prepared for college by the Early 
Assessment Program.  Covered in California 
Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress, including the CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State 
Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic absenteeism rates, middle school dropout rates, 
high school dropout rates, and high school graduation rates.   Covered in Dropout Rates, 
including the Dropout chart; and Graduation 
Rates, including the Graduation Rate chart for 
high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil 
suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, and 
parents and teachers on the sense of safety and school connectedness.  Covered in Discipline & 
Climate for Learning, including Suspension & 
Expulsion chart; and School Site Safety Plan.Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course 
of study that includes all of the subject areas.   
Not covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in 
Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness 
Test chart
.PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to school 
and student success. Triple Crown Elementary 
School offers a wide variety of opportunities for 
parents to support the school and their child™s 
academic efforts through volunteering or simply 
attending school events. Parents seeking more 
information or who are interested in participating 
in any of the activities listed below may contact the 
school receptionist or secretary at (951) 490-0440. 
Volunteer to Help
Ł In the classrooms and libraryŁ Chaperone school dancesŁ Chaperone field tripsJoin Leadership GroupsŁ African American Success Committee (AASC)
Ł District School Liaison Team (DSLT)
Ł English Learner Advisory Council (ELAC)
Ł Parent Advisory Committee (PAC)
Ł Parent Teacher Organization (PTO)
Ł School Site Council (SSC)Special Events & Activities
Ł Art Fair/Ice Cream Social
Ł Back to School NightŁ English Learner Classes for ParentsŁ Fall FestivalŁ Family STEAM NightsŁ Grade level sponsored special eventsŁ Honor Roll assembliesŁ Literacy NightsŁ Science / Engineering FairŁ Spelling BeeŁ Scholar of the Month assembliesSchool-to-home communication is provided 
in both English and Spanish. Peach Jar and Blackboard Connect, an automated telephone 
message system, is used to quickly forward 
announcements to each student™s home. The 
school marquee is updated weekly with all the 
upcoming important events, including dates 
and times, as well as highlighting students 
and classrooms for special recognition. At the 
beginning of each month, a calendar of events 
is sent home with students to keep parents up to date on current events and upcoming activities. 
Throughout the year, information is distributed 
through flyers, letters,  the digital marquee, and 
the school website (www.valverde.edu) which 
features a calendar of events, teacher/classroom 
web pages, and current news. Teachers 
welcome email communication. Parents can 
access their students information through the new Val Verde app.
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT BENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student 
learning. District benchmark assessments 
supplement multiple measures of assessment 
to identify students™ mastery of content, depth 
of knowledge, and skills. District benchmark 
assessments are aligned to the California State 
Standards and are comprised of both formative 
and summative assessments given in math, 
reading, and language arts. During the 2018-
19 school year, all students in grades 1-5 were 
assessed multiple times utilizing a system of 
short-cycle formative assessments to identify 
content area mastery and specific gaps in the 
learning process.  Students in grades 7-12 
were evaluated quarterly throughout the year to 
determine course grades and levels of content mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used to 
identify student progress, understanding of 
state content standards, and mastery of subject 
area matter/concepts. These measures include: 
state summative assessments, benchmark assessments, grade level/department common 
assessments, classroom observations, teacher-
created assessments, adaptive diagnostic 
assessments in reading and math, and early 
indicators of reading assessments. Collectively, 
the benchmark assessments and multiple measures aid teachers in 1) identifying areas 
where instruction may or may not be effective; 
2) guiding classroom instruction practices and 
strategies; and 3) identifying students who need 
targeted academic assistance or intervention. 
Teachers and administrators are able to 
pinpoint any deficiencies or gaps in the learning 
process, identifying very specific skill sets and 
subject area content that needs to be retaught, 
reinforced, or revised to ensure every student obtains a solid foundation for future success in learning.CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESSThe California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education population, and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students 
with the most significant cognitive disabilities.  
Only eligible students may participate in the 
administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are 
aligned with alternative achievement standards, 
which are linked with the Common Core State 
Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a 
measure of how well students are mastering 
California™s standards in English language arts/
literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance 
in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance 
tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with 
alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, district and state scores as well as the school™s 
overall score in each applicable subgroup. 
Results are shown only for subgroups with 
ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More 
information on CAASPP can be found on the 
California Department of Education™s website 
www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/
.Triple Crown Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILETriple Crown Elementary School provides a 
safe, clean environment for learning through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Original school buildings were 
constructed in 2006; ongoing maintenance ensures school facilities are kept safe and in good working condition and continue to provide 
adequate space for students and staff. 
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Resurface blacktopŁ Upgrades to the portablesŁ Modernization projects to the library and the   MPR2019-20 Campus Improvements in Progress:Ł Resurface blacktopŁ Installation of new flooring in the MPR˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

†ˆ“
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
ˇ˝†ˇˆ“˘
‘‘’
˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘


˘
••••••••••••••••••••‘‡˚
••••••••••••••••••••…ˆˆ—˝˛


…˝–˝˘ˆˆ€ˆƒ˙
••••••••••••••••••••⁄˛


˜–˚ˆˆ›
••••••••••••••••••••˝˙˙−ˆ‰˝˘˛



ˇ‹ˆ


˛ˆ–˛‹ˆ‰˛


‘˛ˆ‚‹
••••••••••••••••••••˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˛˙
ˇ˙
ˆˆˆ˘˙˚˘˜ˇˆ˚
˘˘†“‘’

PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, Triple Crown 
Elementary School is required by the state to 
administer a physical fitness test to all students 
in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test 
measures each student™s ability to complete six 
fitness tasks in six major areas. Students that 
either meet or exceed the standards in all six 
fitness areas are considered to be physically 
fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative 
district and state results can be found at the 
CDE™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/. 
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝

ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝˙˛††˝†
˙˚˙˛††˝†
’˙š˚†˝†˙€†˙ˇ†
††
˙—˛‘
–—˘‘˝˛˝
–…˘ƒˇ˝˚˙š
–˙
–•⁄˚˝˙‹›˙š
–˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
Triple Crown Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SCHOOL INSPECTIONSTriple Crown Elementary School and the Val 
Verde Unified School District™s Maintenance and 
Operations Department (M&O) work together to 
ensure student safety and uphold high cleaning 
standards. M&O supervisors and school administration inspect facilities on a continual 
basis to identify and resolve concerns in a 
proactive and timely manner. The most recent 
facilities inspection at Triple Crown Elementary 
School took place on July 15, 2019. Schools are required by state law to report the condition of 
their facilities; the School Facility Good Repair 
Status table illustrated in this report
 identifies the 
state-required inspection areas and discloses the operational status in each of those areas. 
During fiscal year 2019-20, all restrooms were 
fully functional and available for student use at 
the time of the inspection.SUPERVISION & SAFETYAs a component of the school™s secure campus 
policy, school facilities are fully enclosed with 
a perimeter fence system. Only students are allowed to travel in and out of entrance gates; 
parents and guardians must enter the campus 
through the school™s main office.
Each morning as students arrive on campus, teachers are strategically placed in designated areas to monitor activities and behavior. Campus 
supervisors begin monitoring entrance gates at 
7:15 am; the principal, teachers, and campus supervisors are strategically stationed in the cafeteria, at the entrance gate, and in the bus 
area as students begin their arrival on campus. During recess, six supervision aides monitor 
playground behavior. During lunch recess, six 
supervision aides monitor student activities 
in the cafeteria and on the playground. When 
students are dismissed at the end of the day, 
the principal and teachers monitor main exits  
and student pick-up areas in front of the school 
to ensure students leave campus in a safe and 
orderly manner. 
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain 
a safe and secure environment, all parents 
and visitors are required to check in at the 
school office upon arrival and present valid 
picture identification, obtain and wear a visitor™s 
badge, and then return to the school office upon 
departure.SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for Triple Crown Elementary 
School in collaboration with local agencies 
and the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 
requirements.  The Val Verde Unified School 
District partners with Hour-Zero for school 
emergency response planning, management, consulting, and training. Hour-Zero  specialists 
support district and school staff with the 
ongoing development of a comprehensive 
emergency preparedness program to address 
critical components of emergency response 
planning and compliance with federal and state 
requirements.Components of Triple Crown Elementary™s 
safety plan include child abuse reporting 
procedures, teacher notification of dangerous 
pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, 
procedures for safe arrival and departure from 
school, sexual harassment policy, dress code 
policy, and bully prevention policy. The school™s 
most current safety plan was reviewed, updated, 
and shared with school staff in March 2019.
Each custodian is provided one week of 
intensive training upon employment.  Thereafter, 
training is coordinated by district maintenance 
supervisors and custodial staff meetings are 
held twice annually. Training activities in use 
of equipment and safety procedures are led 
by district risk management representatives, 
vendors, and department supervisors. The 
district™s Operations Supervisor visits Triple 
Crown Elementary School monthly to review 
custodial performance, discuss campus 
maintenance needs with the principal, evaluate 
conditions of the school facility, and follow up 
on outstanding work order requests.MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance department work together to 
ensure playing fields, classrooms, and campus grounds are well-maintained and kept safe 
and functioning for students, staff, and visitors. 
Maintenance and Operations (M&O) continues 
to employ an electronic work order process to 
facilitate and improve services to Triple Crown 
Elementary School.  Teachers and school staff 
communicate unscheduled maintenance needs, 
urgent repairs, or special projects to designated 
office support staff who prepare and submit 
work orders to M&O for resolution. Emergency 
situations are immediately resolved either by the 
school custodian or district maintenance staff.   
DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time day custodian, one full-time evening custodian, one part-time evening custodian, and a rotating crew of groundskeepers are assigned to Triple Crown 
Elementary School and work closely with the principal for routine maintenance, daily custodial 
duties, and special events. The principal and 
lead custodian communicate as needed to 
discuss safety concerns, maintenance needs, 
and cleaning practices. Every morning before 
school begins, the lead custodian inspects 
facilities for safety hazards, graffiti, and other 
conditions that require immediate attention 
or removal prior to students and staff entering 
school grounds. Custodians check restrooms 
and are notified as needed throughout the day in an effort to keep restrooms fully stocked, 
safe, and sanitary.
Custodians are responsible for cleaning campus 
grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and common areas to ensure facilities remain in good working 
condition, clean, and safe for students, staff, and 
visitors. The custodians are required to inspect 
restrooms a minimum of two times a day and 
subsequently document restroom inspections in their daily inspection log. All custodians follow 
approved district standards and procedures 
for routine custodial functions and campus 
maintenance. The groundskeeper is responsible 
for general gardening and maintenance work 
such as trash and debris removal, landscaping care, irrigation system maintenance, and 
playing field maintenance.  


˜˚˛˝
˛˜˚˙˛
˙˙ˆˇ˝˜˘
˜˝
˛˝
˘˙˝˛˘
˘˝
˝˜
ˇ˝˜˙
˜˝˜
˛˝˜
˙˝˜˘
˘˝
˝˜
ˇ˝˜˛
˜˝
˛˝
˙˝
˘˝
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

†

‘’
€



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘
Triple Crown Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Frequent praise and reinforcement is emphasized by all school staff to promote good citizenship. 
Students demonstrating good behavior, acts of kindness, responsibility, or any other characteristic 
of good citizenship is rewarded with a Colt Champ Award.  Students may submit their awards into 
weekly drawings for special incentive prizes.Teachers select students demonstrating outstanding academic effort and good behavior for the 
Student of the Month awards.  At the end of each trimester, awards assemblies are held to distribute  
Attendance, Honor Roll, and Principal™s Honor Roll awards to qualifying students.
ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESStudents are provided many opportunities to participate in supplemental classroom enrichment and 
extracurricular activities. Students have the opportunity to students to have fun exploring individual 
interests by participating in:CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTCLASS SIZE The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-31 students, and 33 or more students.DISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGA safe, clean school and an effective learning 
program provide the basis for Triple Crown 
Elementary School™s discipline program. 
Character Counts!, PBIS (Positive Behavior Intervention and Support), and Response to Intervention (RtI) are used collectively to 
guide behavior management strategies and 
practices while promoting student respect and responsibility.
School staff support an environment that 
teaches students, through the daily curriculum, the skills to resolve conflicts and take 
responsibility for their decisions. Each teacher 
has established a consistent plan to address 
classroom management policies and incentive 
programs in alignment with schoolwide rules 
and policies. Triple Crown Elementary School utilizes both 
the OLWEUS Bully Prevention Program and 
the Positive Behavior Intervention and Support system. The OLWEUS bully prevention program 
is a preventative program which requires active 
participation from all members of our school 
community.  It is designed for all students and 
is preventative and responsive to any and all 
acts of bullying.  The Positive Behavior Support 
System will be integrated with OLWEUS 
bully prevention program.  Through the 
Positive Behavior Support System, our school 
community will provide intentional structures 
for student success through positive behavior 
expectations.School and classroom rules are posted in 
each classroom. At the beginning of the 
school year, school rules, district policies, and 
academic expectations are 1) outlined in the 
student handbook (printed in both English and 
Spanish), and 2) reinforced by the principal 
during discipline assemblies. Teachers 
remind students of school rules and behavior 
expectations as situations arise. Monthly 
themes focused on a primary Character Counts! behavior are introduced into classroom 
discussions, lessons, and activities.Progressive disciplinary measures begin in 
the classroom when students are disruptive or demonstrating poor citizenship. When students 
continue having difficulty following school rules, 
teachers refer the student to the principal for further intervention. Consequences and 
disciplinary action are based upon the student™s 
past behavior trend and severity of infraction. 
Discipline measures are consistently applied in 
a fair and firm manner and in accordance with 
the schoolwide discipline matrix. ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

ˇ
†
Ł 100 Mile ClubŁ Art Club
Ł Chess ClubŁ Colts on DemandŁ College & Career FairŁ Defined STEMŁ DreamboxŁ GATE/High Achievers
Ł Grade level sponsored special eventsŁ International DaysŁ IXLŁ MobymaxŁ NEWSELAŁ Razz KidsŁ Science ClubŁ Science FairŁ Sign Language ClubŁ Spelling BeeŁ STEM RotationŁ THINK Together
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement activities at Val Verde Unified School District are 
aligned to the California State Standards. The district™s Educational Services Department selects 
staff development concentrations based on principal feedback, teacher survey results, California 
State Standards, district benchmark assessment results, and state standardized test results.During the 2018-19 school year, Triple Crown Elementary School held staff development training 
focused on:Ł 21st Century LearningŁ AVID
Ł Common Core State StandardsŁ Conceptual MathŁ Data Analysis
Ł Depth of KnowledgeŁ Grade Level ExpectationsŁ Next Generation Science Standards Ł Note Taking
Ł PBISŁ Professional Learning Communities (PLC)Ł Reading in the Content Area
Ł Restorative PracticesŁ Response to InterventionŁ School SafetyŁ Technology
Ł WICORDuring the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 school years, Val Verde Unified School District provided 
professional development on the following topics: Triple Crown Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Special education staff, resource specialist 
staff, bilingual aides, and instructional aides 
receive customized training to support the 
district™s educational programs and develop 
strategies to increase effectiveness in teaching 
practices. Classified support staff receive job-
related training from department supervisors 
and district representatives; training activities 
and workshops are designed to enhance and 
extend job performance. Long-term substitute teachers may be encouraged to participate 
in site-sponsored activities to enhance their 
understanding of Val Verde Unified School 
District™s curriculum and classroom management 
practices.INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Val Verde Unified School District are 
being aligned to the California State Standards. 
Instructional materials for grades K-8 are 
selected from the state™s most recent list of 
standards-based materials and adopted by the 
State Board of Education. Instructional materials for grades 9-12 are standards-based and 
approved by the district™s Board of Education.  
On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified 
School District™s Board of Education held a 
public hearing to certify the extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Board of Education 
adopted Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies 
as required by Education Code §60119 1) that 
textbooks and instructional materials were 
provided t
o all students, including English 
learners, in the district to the extent that each pupil has a standards-aligned textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 
and to take home, 2) sufficient textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English learners, that are 
aligned to the academic content standards 
and are consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks in math, 
science, history-social science, and English/language arts, including the English language 
development component of an adopted program, 
3) sufficient textbooks or instructional materials 
were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign 
language or health classes, and 4) sufficient 
laboratory science equipment was available for 
science laboratory classes offered in grades 
9-12 inclusive. Within a six-week period prior to 
adoption, parents may preview recommended instructional materials at the district office or the 
school™s office.
During the 2019-20 school year, teachers 
also had the opportunity to participate in the 
following professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes 
new teachers and provides intensive training 
to help them experience success in their 
new classrooms. For ongoing professional 
guidance, the district supports new and veteran 
teachers in developing their teaching skills. 
California Teacher Induction (CTID) program, 
a state-sponsored program, is designed for 
first- and second-year credentialed teachers 
and provides skills assistance over a two-year period. The Peer Assistance and Review 
program is designed to improve the education 
of students and increase the classroom 
performance of teachers, targeting both new 
and veteran teachers. Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. 
New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/
teacher leaders, administrators, and support 
staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the district and Riverside County 
Office of Education. Professional and subject-
specific offerings are consistent with the 
California State Standards. In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for 
its visual/performing arts curricula.  During the 
2019-20 school year, Val Verde Unified School 
District certifies that each student, including 
English learners, enrolled in a visual/performing 
arts class has been provided with a textbook 
or supplemental materials to use in class and 
to take home. These materials comply with the 
California State Standards.SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Triple Crown Elementary 
School is a responsibility shared among the 
principal, teachers, and parents. The principal 
is responsible for the day-to-day operations 
and overall curriculum.  The school™s leadership 
team, instructional coach, and School Site 
Council share in the decision-making and 
administrative processes to create an effective, 
safe, and nurturing learning environment. The school™s leadership team, comprised of 
the principal, grade level leaders, instructional 
coach, one special education teacher 
representative, a CSE representative, and one GATE teacher representative meets 
bimonthly to 1) lead the school in fulfilling its 
mission, goals, and vision in regards to student 
achievement, 2) serve as a communications 
hub to share ideas and concerns, and 3) 
establish a connection between administrators 
and teaching staff. Team members take a 
leadership role in completing special projects 
and tasks, supporting the principal in program 
implementation, serving as the liaison between 
grade level teams and school administration, 
and collaborating on major decisions.The School Site Council (SSC), consisting of 
the principal, teachers, classified staff, and 
parents, is a major governing body that meets 
monthly to address school programs, discuss 
progress in meeting school goals, and serve as a liaison between the community and school 
administration. The SSC is responsible for 
reviewing and approving the school site plan, 
safety plan, and budget.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚ˆ˘ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘
˙ˇˇ˚˛ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙ˇ˚ˆ˙
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘˘˘

“ˆ
“˘“ˆ
˙˘
‘ˆ’
ˇ˘“ˆˇ
˘˘ˇ˘
‡˘˘…
‘ˇˇˆ—ˇ˘
˘ƒ˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘⁄˘˘
›˘“ˆ˘
‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‰ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
Triple Crown Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the California State Standards and approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every child receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned 
core program. Triple Crown Elementary School 
structures its educational program so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their 
learning level. To ensure the success of every 
student, teachers use a variety of instructional techniques using research-based instructional 
materials and strategies.SPECIAL EDUCATIONSpecial education students are mainstreamed 
into the general education classroom based 
upon their IEP (Individual Education Plan) 
and provided instruction in the least restrictive 
environment. Special education teachers, special education aides, and general education 
teachers take a team-oriented approach to 
provide maximum levels of instruction in the general education environment. For a portion 
of the regular school day, students may receive 
individual and/or small group instruction from 
special education staff in the Learning Center. 
A District Program Specialist meets with special 
education teachers regularly to provide support 
and assistance in developing student teaching 
schedules and allocating staff resources.
Each student is provided instruction based 
upon their IEP, which is reviewed and updated 
annually by the school™s IEP teams. The IEP 
ensures that students with disabilities have 
equal access to core curriculum and educational opportunities and is used to coordinate specially-
designed instruction based upon individual 
academic, social, and behavior needs.  ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of Triple Crown Elementary™s teachers are 
certified and trained to provide instruction 
for students identified as English Learners 
(EL). EL students receive English Language 
Development (ELD) instruction by their class 
teacher for 30 minutes a day in additional to 
their regular language arts curriculum. Using 
specially-designed McGraw-Hill 
Wonders materials, ELD instruction focuses on reading development, verbal language development, 
and vocabulary building. Two bilingual aides 
collaborate with class teachers to provide in-
class small group and individual support based 
upon student needs. As students increase 
fluency in the English language, Triple Crown 
Elementary School continues to monitor student 
performance through ELPAC results, benchmark 
assessments, and classroom observation to 
adjust instruction as needed to ensure continued 
success in acquiring the English language and 
proficiency in reading/language arts.  GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONTriple Crown Elementary School offers a Gifted 
and Talented Education program for students 
who have been recognized as high achievers 
by their teachers and through district testing. 
Both GATE and non-GATE high achievers are 
clustered by grade level to receive accelerated, 
differentiated instruction that offers more depth 
and complexity throughout the curriculum. GATE 
students have the opportunity to participate in a 
variety of structured enrichment activities as part 
of their regular instructional day and after school.
AVIDTriple Crown Elementary School is an AVID elementary school.  AVID Elementary is a foundational 
component of the AVID College Readiness System and supports AVID™s mission to close the 
achievement gap by preparing all students for college readiness and success in a global society.  
Based on the same learning foundation that underlies AVID Secondary, AVID Elementary is 
designed to be embedded into the daily instruction of all elementary classrooms across entire 
grade levels to maintain school wide structures.  AVID Elementary™s implementation of resources, 
trainings, and philosophy are all grounded in the idea that growth mindset can be taught to students.  
It is through the growth mindset that AVID students succeed in following their dreams and fulfilling 
their aspirations.  AVID Elementary takes a systemic approach through the use of WICOR (Writing, 
Inquiry, Collaboration, Organization, Reading) and an explicit focus on high expectations, rigor, and 
developing a college readiness culture.INTERVENTION PROGRAMSTriple Crown Elementary School supports intervention programs to meet the needs of those 
students not meeting state proficiency standards in reading, language arts, and math. RtI² 
comprised of school administrators, teachers, and parents work together to identify individualized 
intervention strategies for and to monitor progress of students having difficulty with academic or 
social development. Formal intervention programs include:Ł Impact Substitute Teachers: students in second and third grade performing below grade level 
standards in language arts receive small group instruction outside the general education classroom. 
Impact substitute specialists provide targeted standards-based instruction.Ł Impact Tutors: for students in grades kindergarten and first to receive reading instruction for 
targeted instruction.Ł THINK Together: voluntary after-school program provided five days a week. Students are 
engaged in a highly structured program that provides homework assistance, tutoring, enrichment, 
recreational activities, and sports. THINK Together is offered daily after school until 6:00 p.m.
Ł Teachers provide individualize tutoring before and after school based upon individual students™ 
academic needs.Ł AccadiencePROFESSIONAL STAFFTEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, Triple Crown Elementary School had 38 teachers who met all 
credential requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number 
of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total 
teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the 
number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal authorization to teach that grade level, subject 
area, student group, etc.SUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, nurses, health technicians, and special education 
service providers. Through close collaboration, this expert team is instrumental in improving student 
attendance and achievement through the identification, referral, and remediation of health and/or emotional concerns. The psychologist assists with academic, social, and emotional issues; provides assessments to 
determine eligibility for Special Education services; and facilitates coordination of Individual Education Plans (IEP).  The school nurse conducts health screening programs. Health technicians provide 
basic aid. As a participating member of the Riverside County Special Education Local Plan Area 
(SELPA), Val Verde Unified School District and Triple Crown Elementary School have access to a full 
complement of professional resources and services to meet the individual needs of its students with 
disabilities. ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˘
˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
ˇˇ˜ˆ˝˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘—
ˇˇˇˇ˝–
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
˘ƒ
——‹
Triple Crown Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATA QUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional information about Triple Crown 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access Triple Crown Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet at any 
of the county™s public libraries.  The closest 
library to Triple Crown Elementary School is 
Perris Branch Public Library located at 163 E. 
San Jacinto  Avenue, Perris, CA 92570.
Perris Branch Public Library - (951) 657-2358Hours: Sunday 1-5           Monday 10-6           Tuesday-Wednesday 12-8   
           Thursday-Saturday 10-6
Number of computers available: 17Number of printers available: 1DISTRICT EXPENDIT
URESSALARY & BUDGET COMPARI
SONState law requires comparative salary and budget information to be reported to the general public. For comparison purposes, the State Department of Education has provided average salary data from school districts having similar average daily attendance throughout the state.EXPENDIT
URES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Verde Unified 
School District spent an average of $11,189 of 
total general funds to educate each student (based 
on 2017-18 audited financial statements and in accordance with calculations defined in Education Code §41372). The table in this rep
ort 1) compares the school™s per pupil expenditures from unrestricted 
(basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the 
table below reflect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities 
acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, 
state, and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Ongoing & Major Maintenance Account
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education









˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ˙
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ†
“˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
‘˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
’š
‡
‡
‡
‡
‘˘ˇ˘—˝˙˘–
•ƒ⁄‡
‡
‡
‡
˘ˇ˘—‹ˇ–
’šƒ⁄›
€š’−•
−›‰
−š€„−
−ƒ‰
“
−⁄š›•š›ƒƒ›ƒš„•””„ƒ‰
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

ˇ

ˇˇ˝

˜

ˇ
“
ˆ˘ˇˇ

ˇ
’
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙˝
˙
ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙˙

˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ

