Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in 
the heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 72 
miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the district 
and its communities are March Air Force Base 
and the Lake Perris recreational area.  During 
the 2018-19 school year, the district™s schools 
served more than 20,200 students residing in 
the rural and suburban communities of Perris, 
Moreno Valley, and portions of unincorporated 
Riverside County.  The district currently operates 
a preschool, 12 elementary schools, 4 middle 
schools, 3 comprehensive high schools, a student 
success academy, a virtual academy, and a 
continuation high school.  During the 2018-19 school year, Rainbow 
Ridge Elementary School served 777 students 
in grades TK-5. Student enrollment included 
19.9% receiving special education services, 
25.4% qualifying for English learner support, and 
86.4% qualifying for free or reduced-price meals. 
The principal leads a team of highly qualified 
professionals dedicated to providing a rigorous 
academic program designed to ensure students 
reach their maximum potential in alignment with 
state standards. PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to Rainbow Ridge 
Elementary School. We believe 
all students can learn and 
are dedicated to providing a positive and safe 
environment for every one of our students. We 
are committed to building relationships with our 
students and ensuring that they are future ready.
In order to meet the needs of all students, teachers 
work collaboratively to analyze data to guide 
instruction. All instructional goals are focused on 
the California State Standards.Rainbow Ridge Elementary offers multiple programs 
to support the needs of our diverse learning 
population.  Schoolwide AVID implementation is 
our primary focus and we are dedicated to providing 
students the tools necessary to be college and 
career ready. Teachers participate in professional 
development on how to WICORize their lessons, in 
which students write, provide inquiry, collaborate, 
learn strategies for organization, and reading. 
Rainbow Ridge also offers a Gifted and Talented 
Education program in which students are given 
opportunities to further their education through 
enrichment activities and field trips.  All Rainbow 
Ridge Scholars and staff are a part of our Positive 
Behavior and Intervention Support Program where 
our scholars learn how they ﬁRep the Ridgeﬂ by 
being respectful, responsible, encouraging, and 
safe.Our parents are involved through School Site 
Council (SSC), and English Learner Advisory 
Committee (ELAC). We provide in-services on the 
instructional practices implemented in classrooms, 
and receive feedback from our community.
Rainbow Ridge parents also volunteer in classrooms 
and during after school activities. Rainbow Ridge Elementary School provides a diverse, rigorous, 
and enriching learning environment committed 
to elevating our students™ academic, social, and 
emotional success.VISION STATEMENT
We, the community of Rainbow Ridge Elementary 
School, work together to encourage and enable all 
students to reach their personal best in knowledge, 
problem solving skills, and commitment to life-long learning necessary to become responsible, 
contributing citizens in a culturally diverse global 
society.
RAIN
BOW
 RIDGE
 ELEMENTARY
 S
CHOOL
15950 Indian Avenue, Moreno Valley, CA 92551
Phone: (951) 490-0420  Ł  Fax: (951) 490-0425Marie-Antoinette McPhee, PrincipalE-mail: mmcphee@valverde.edu                       ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘
˘“


˘’
€

˘
˘•
‡ˇˇ
…˚˙

–ˇƒ˙ˇ⁄
˜‹ˇ
›

—ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ–˚—ˇ
−˙

‡

€˚ˇ„—

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙

‡ˇ™ˇ
”

ˇ
˙ˆ˚

Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP). The following components of this 
SARC address some of the priorities identified 
in the District™s LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are 
appropriately assigned and fully credentialed 
in the subject areas and for the pupils they are teaching; pupils have access to standards-
aligned Instructional materials and school 
facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks 
chart; and School Facilities & Maintenance, 
including the Campus Description and School 
Facility Good Repair Status charts.Conditions of Learning (Implementation of State 
Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  Implementation of 
academic content and performance standards adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts 
to seek parent input in decision making, 
promotion of parent participation in programs 
for unduplicated pupils and special need 
subgroups.  Covered in Parent Involvement.Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score 
on Academic Performance Index, share of 
pupils that are college and career ready, 
share of English learners that become English 
proficient, English learner reclassification rate, 
share of pupils that pass Advanced Placement 
exams with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils 
determined prepared for college by the Early 
Assessment Program.  Covered in California 
Assessment of Student Performance and Progress, including the CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State 
Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic 
absenteeism rates, middle school dropout rates, high school dropout rates, and high school 
graduation rates.   Covered in Dropout Rates, 
including the Dropout chart; and Graduation 
Rates, including the Graduation Rate chart for 
high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil 
suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, and 
parents and teachers on the sense of safety and school connectedness.  Covered in Discipline 
& Climate for Learning, including Suspension 
& Expulsion chart; and School Site Safety Plan.Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course of 
study that includes all of the subject areas.   Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil 
outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in Physical 
Fitness, including the Physical Fitness Test chart
.PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to school 
and student success. Rainbow Ridge Elementary 
School offers a wide variety of opportunities for 
parents to support the school and their child™s 
academic efforts through volunteering or simply 
attending school events. Parents seeking more 
information or who are interested in participating in any of the activities listed below may contact 
the school office or their child™s teacher at (951) 
490-0420.Volunteer to Help:
Ł After-school activities/events
Ł In the classroom, library, and office
Ł PBIS TALON Cart
Ł Chaperone field tripsJoin Leadership Groups:Ł District Advisory Council (Title I)
Ł English Learner Advisory Committee
Ł GATE Advisory Committee
Ł Parent Advisory Committee
Ł School Advisory Council (Title I)
Ł School Site CouncilAttend Special Events & Workshops:
Ł Back to School NightŁ Breakfast with the PrincipalŁ Family Reading NightŁ Jump Rope for HeartŁ March of DimesŁ Parent ConferencesŁ Parent Engagement NightŁ Parent Trainings
Ł PBIS NightŁ Picture DayŁ Read Across America
Ł Red Ribbon Week
Ł Science FairŁ Spelling BeeŁ STEAM NightŁ Student PerformancesŁ TK-1 Early Literacy Training
Ł Volunteer Appreciation Tea
Ł Winter ProgramSchool-to-home communication is provided in both 
English and Spanish. A calendar of school events 
is published on the schools website. Teachers 
communicate through Class DoJo and progress 
reports to keep parents apprised of classroom 
activities and curriculum news. The school website 
features general information. School staff use 
Peach Jar and Blackboard Connect, an automated 
telephone broadcast system, to quickly forward 
important messages to students™ homes. Parents 
can have access to their student™s information 
through the Val Verde app and parent portal.
STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT BENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student 
learning. District benchmark assessments 
supplement multiple measures of assessment 
to identify students™ mastery of content, depth 
of knowledge, and skills. District benchmark 
assessments are aligned to the California State 
Standards and are comprised of both formative 
and summative assessments given in math, 
reading, and language arts. During the 2018-
19 school year, all students in grades 1-5 were 
assessed multiple times utilizing a system of 
short-cycle formative assessments to identify content area mastery and specific gaps in the learning process.  Students in grades 7-12 
were evaluated quarterly throughout the year to 
determine course grades and levels of content 
mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used to 
identify student progress, understanding of state content standards, and mastery of subject area 
matter/concepts. These measures include: state 
summative assessments, benchmark assessments, 
grade level/department common assessments, 
classroom observations, teacher-created 
assessments, adaptive diagnostic assessments 
in reading and math, and early indicators of 
reading assessments. Collectively, the benchmark 
assessments and multiple measures aid teachers 
in 1) identifying areas where instruction may or may 
not be effective; 2) guiding classroom instruction 
practices and strategies; and 3) identifying 
students who need targeted academic assistance 
or intervention. Teachers and administrators are 
able to pinpoint any deficiencies or gaps in the 
learning process, identifying very specific skill sets 
and subject area content that needs to be retaught, 
reinforced, or revised to ensure every student 
obtains a solid foundation for future success in 
learning.CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESSThe California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education population, and the California 
Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students 
with the most significant cognitive disabilities.  
Only eligible students may participate in the 
administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are 
aligned with alternative achievement standards, 
which are linked with the Common Core State 
Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a 
measure of how well students are mastering 
California™s standards in English language arts/
literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. 
SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/
Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and 
CAAs test items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards which are linked with the 
Common Core State Standards (CCSS). Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛
˘ˆ†
“
˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˚˝˘†ˆ“
‘‘’
˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘


˘
••••••••••••••••••••‘˚
••••••••••••••••••••…ˆˆ—˝˛


…˝–˝˘ˆˆ€ˆƒ˙
••••••••••••••••••••⁄˛


˜–˚ˆˆ›
••••••••••••••••••••˝˙˙−ˆ‰˝˘˛



ˇ‹ˆ


˛ˆ–˛‹ˆ‰˛


‘˛ˆ‚‹
••••••••••••••••••••˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˛˙
ˇ˙
ˆˆˆ˘˙˚˘˜ˇˆ˚
˘˘†“‘’

The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown 
only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the 
California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, Rainbow Ridge Elementary School is required by the state to administer 
a physical fitness test to all students in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test measures each 
student™s ability to complete six fitness tasks in six major areas. Students that either meet or exceed 
the standards in all six fitness areas are considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ 
Comparative district and state results can be found at the CDE™s web site www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
SCHOOL FACILITIES & SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILERainbow Ridge Elementary School provides a 
safe, clean environment for learning through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus 
supervision. Original school buildings were 
constructed in 1989; the two-story add-on was 
completed during the 2008-09 school year.  
Ongoing maintenance ensures school facilities 
are kept safe and in good working condition and 
continue to provide adequate space for students 
and staff. 
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝

ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝†˙“˛‘‘˝‘
˙˚˙“˛‘‘˝‘
˙š˚‘˝‘˙€‘˙ˇ‘
‘‘
˙—˛’
š˚‘˚˙š
—˘’˝˛˝
…˘–ˇ˝˚˙š
˙
•ƒ˚˝˙⁄‹˙š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Remodeling projects to the front lobby for   security purposesŁ Painting projects campus wideŁ Installation of new flooring in the multipurpose   roomŁ Installation of privacy fencing on the small   playground2019-20 Campus Improvements in Progress:Ł Addition of speed bumps in main parking lot
Ł Painting projects campus wideŁ Installation of new flooring in the multipurpose   roomŁ Addition of parking spaces for the parents of 
  special ed studentsŁ Creation of a conference room for IEPsŁ Addition of privacy fencing in the lunch area
Ł Clean out of the school gardenSUPERVISION & SAFETYAs a component of the school™s secure campus 
policy, school facilities are fully enclosed with 
a perimeter fence system. Only students are 
allowed to travel in and out of entrance gates; 
parents and guardians must enter the campus 
through the school™s main office.
Each morning as students arrive on campus, the 
teachers and supervision aides share supervision 
of students receiving breakfast. Teachers are 
strategically stationed at the playground, 
parking lot, and cafeteria to monitor activities 
and behavior. One staff member assists during 
arrival and departure of kindergarten students 
(Early Birds/Later Gators).  During recess, campus 
supervision aides oversee playground activities. 
During lunch recess, five campus supervision 
aides are responsible for monitoring student 
behavior and activities in the cafeteria, outside 
the restrooms, and on the playground. When 
students are dismissed at the end of the day, all 
teachers escort their students to the main exit 
areas. Administration, teachers and other staff 
members ensure students leave campus in a safe 
and orderly manner. Teachers assist during arrival 
and departure of kindergarten sessions. Crossing 
guards patrol the streets and parking lot and assist 
in student crossing before and after school.Components of Rainbow Ridge Elementary™s 
school safety plan include child abuse reporting 
procedures, teacher notification of dangerous 
pupil procedures, disaster response procedures, 
procedures for safe arrival and departure from 
school, sexual harassment policy, dress code 
policy, and bully prevention policy. The school™s 
most current safety plan was reviewed, updated, 
and shared with school staff in February 2019.
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance department work together to ensure 
playing fields, classrooms, and campus grounds 
are well-maintained and kept safe and functioning 
for students, staff, and visitors. Maintenance 
and Operations (M&O) continues to employ an 
electronic work order process to facilitate and 
improve services to Rainbow Ridge Elementary 
School. Teachers and school staff communicate 
unscheduled maintenance needs, urgent repairs, 
or special projects to designated custodial and 
office support staff who prepare and submit 
work orders to M&O for resolution. Emergency 
situations are immediately resolved either by the 
school custodian or district maintenance staff.  
DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time day custodian, one full-time evening 
custodian, one part-time evening custodian, and a 
team of groundskeepers are assigned to Rainbow 
Ridge Elementary School and work closely with 
the principal for routine maintenance, daily 
custodial duties, and special events. The principal 
and custodians communicate daily, as needed, 
to discuss campus cleaning needs and safety 
concerns. Every morning before school begins, the custodian inspects the facilities for safety 
hazards, graffiti, and other conditions that require 
immediate attention or removal prior to students 
and staff entering school grounds. Custodians and 
campus supervision aides check restrooms every 
hour as a proactive measure to keep restrooms 
fully stocked, safe, and sanitary.
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers or 
to participate in school events. To maintain a safe 
and secure environment, all parents and visitors 
are required to check in at the school office upon 
arrival, present valid picture identification, obtain and wear a visitor™s badge, and then return to the 
school office upon departure.
SCHOOL INSPECTIONSRainbow Ridge Elementary School and the Val 
Verde Unified School District™s Maintenance and 
Operations Department (M&O) work together to 
ensure student safety and uphold high cleaning 
standards. M&O supervisors and school 
administration inspect facilities on a continual basis 
to identify and resolve concerns in a proactive and 
timely manner. The most recent facilities inspection 
at Rainbow Ridge Elementary School took place 
on July 16, 2019. Schools are required by state 
law to report the condition of their facilities; the 
School Facility Good Repair Status table illustrated 
in this report identifies the state-required inspection 
areas and discloses the operational status in each 
of those areas. 
During fiscal year 2019-20, all 
restrooms were fully functional and available for 
student use at the time of the inspection.SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was 
developed for Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 
in collaboration with local agencies and the district 
office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 requirements.  The Val 
Verde Unified School District partners with Hour-
Zero for school emergency response planning, 
management, consulting, and training. Hour-Zero 
specialists support district and school staff with 
the ongoing development of a comprehensive 
emergency preparedness program to address 
critical components of emergency response 
planning and compliance with federal and state 
requirements.


Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the classroom when students are disruptive or demonstrating 
poor citizenship. When students continue having difficulty following school rules, teachers refer students 
to administration for further intervention. Students may be placed in a ﬁbuddyﬂ classroom for a short 
period time; the temporary placement allows the student a neutral environment to reflect upon their 
behavior and the opportunity to complete class assignments. Consequences and disciplinary action 
are based upon the student™s past behavior trend and severity of infraction. Discipline measures are 
consistently applied in a fair and consistent manner. 
Staff members frequently reward and encourage students exhibiting good behavior. At the end of 
each month, an awards assembly is held to recognize students earning Student of the Month, where peers and parents can attend and they are also awarded lunch with the principal. Trimester awards 
assemblies honor students for:Ł EL Reclassification
Ł Excellence in Reading, Math, Writing, and Spelling
Ł Citizenship Awards 
Ł Honor Roll & Principal™s Honor Roll
Ł Most Improved Awards (Academics)
Ł Perfect Attendance
CLASS SIZE The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each 
grade level, the average class size, and the number 
of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 students, 
and 33 or more students.EXTRAC
URRICULAR AND ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESStudents are encouraged to participate in the school™s 
extracurricular and enrichment activities offered 
during and after school. These programs provide 
the opportunity for students to explore their interests 
beyond the standard curriculum in a structured and 
supervised setting. Activities include: 
Ł 100 Mile ClubŁ After School GATE Enrichment
Ł ASBŁ Drama ClubŁ DrumfitŁ GATE
Ł In-school Enrichment by Impact SubsŁ Music ProgramŁ PlayworksŁ RoboticsŁ Spirit DaysŁ Sports (basketball, track, soccer, softball) 
  (Gr.3-5)
Ł STEAM Saturday SchoolŁ Talent Show
Ł THINK Together (After School)
Ł VAPA (Dance, Theather & Drum Circle)
Ł Yearbook
Custodians are responsible for cleaning campus 
grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and common 
areas to ensure facilities remain in good working 
condition, clean, and safe for students, staff, and 
visitors. The custodians are required to inspect 
restrooms a minimum of two times a day and 
subsequently document restroom inspections in 
their daily inspection log. All custodians follow 
approved district standards and procedures 
for routine custodial functions and campus 
maintenance. The groundskeeper is responsible 
for general gardening and maintenance work such 
as trash and debris removal, landscaping care, 
irrigation system maintenance, and playing field 
maintenance. Each custodian is provided one week of intensive 
training upon employment.  Thereafter, training is 
coordinated by district maintenance supervisors 
and custodial staff meetings are held twice 
annually. Training activities in use of equipment 
and safety procedures are led by district risk 
management representatives, vendors, and 
department supervisors. The district™s Operations 
Supervisor visits Rainbow Ridge Elementary 
School monthly to review custodial performance, 
discuss campus maintenance needs with the 
principal, evaluate conditions of the school facility, 
and follow up on outstanding work order requests.
CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTDISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGA safe, clean school and an effective learning 
program provide the basis for Rainbow Ridge 
Elementary School™s discipline program. School 
staff support an environment that teaches 
students, through the daily curriculum, the skills to resolve conflicts and take responsibility for their 
decisions. Teachers have established classroom 
management policies and behavior incentive 
programs in alignment with schoolwide rules 
and policies. Rainbow Ridge Elementary School utilizes both 
the Positive Behavior Intervention and Support 
system and morning meetings
. Through the 
Positive Behavior Support System and morning 
meetings, our school community will provide 
intentional structures for student success through 
positive behavior expectations. The PBIS team 
meets at least once a month to fully engage 
students.School and classroom rules are posted in each 
classroom. At the beginning of the school year, 
school rules, district policies, and academic 
expectations are 1) outlined in the student/parent handbook, 2) shared by teachers as part 
of their classroom orientation process, and 3) 
reinforced at student assemblies. Students are 
reminded throughout the year during morning 
announcements to conduct themselves in a 
safe, responsible, and courteous manner. Social 
skills lessons are integrated into daily morning 
announcements and taught during morning 
meetings; the principal shares encouraging 
messages designed to help students make good 
choices while developing positive social-emotional 
skills.˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

†ˇ“
‘’
˜˚˛˝
˛˜˚˙˛
˙˙ˆˇ˜˛˘˝
˜˝
˛˛˛˘˝˜
˙˝
˙˝˘˝
˛˛˘˝˛
˝˙
ˇ˜˛˘˝˜˛
˜˙˜˘˝
˛˛˙˘˝˜
˙˛˙˘˝˜
˝
˙˛˘˝
˙˜
˝
ˇ˜˙˘˝˜˜
˜˛˙˘˝˜˙
˛˝˜
˙˝
˝
˝
˜˝˘˝˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝

†

‘’
€



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONINSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum 
throughout Val Verde Unified School District are 
being aligned to the California State Standards. 
Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected 
from the state™s most recent list of standards-
based materials and adopted by the State Board 
of Education. Instructional materials for grades 
9-12 are standards-b
ased and approved by the 
district™s Board of Education. 
On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified 
School District™s Board of Education held a 
public hearing to certify the extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Board of Education 
adopted Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies as required by Education Code §60119 that 
1) textbooks and instructional materials were 
provided to all students, including English learners, 
in the district to the extent that each pupil has 
a standards-aligned textbook or instructional 
materials, or both, to use in class and to take 
home, 2) sufficient textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to each student, including 
English learners, that are aligned to the academic 
content standards and are consistent with the 
cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks 
in mathematics, science, history-social science, and English/language arts, including the English 
language development component of an adopted 
program, 3) sufficient textbooks or instructional 
materials were provided to each pupil enrolled 
in foreign language or health classes, and 4) 
sufficient laboratory science equipment was 
available for science laboratory classes offered 
in grades 9-12 inclusive. Within a six-week 
period prior to adoption, parents may preview 
recommended instructional materials at the district 
office or the school™s office.
In addition to the core subject areas, districts 
are required to disclose in their SARCs the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for 
its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 
2019-20 school year, Val Verde Unified School 
District certifies that each student, including 
English learners, enrolled in a visual/performing 
arts class has been provided with a textbook or 
supplemental materials to use in class and to take 
home. These materials comply with the California 
State Standards.During the 2019-20 school year, teachers also 
had the opportunity to participate in the following 
professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes new 
teachers and provides intensive training to help 
them experience success in their new classrooms. 
For ongoing professional guidance, the district 
supports new and veteran teachers in developing 
their teaching skills. California Teacher Induction 
(CTID) program, a state-sponsored program, is 
designed for first- and second-year credentialed 
teachers and provides skills assistance over a 
two-year period. The Peer Assistance and Review 
program is designed to improve the education of 
students and increase the classroom performance 
of teachers, targeting both new and veteran 
teachers. Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. New 
teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher 
leaders, administrators, and support staff are 
encouraged to participate in workshops sponsored 
by the district and Riverside County Office of 
Education. Professional and subject-specific 
offerings are consistent with the California State 
Standards. ˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚ˆ˘ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘
˙ˇˇ˚˛ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙ˇ˚ˆ˙
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘˘˘

“ˆ
“˘“ˆ
˙˘
‘ˆ’
ˇ˘“ˆˇ
˘˘ˇ˘
‡˘˘…
‘ˇˇˆ—ˇ˘
˘ƒ˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘⁄˘˘
›˘“ˆ˘
‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‰ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
STAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement 
activities at Val Verde Unified School District 
are aligned to the California State Standards. 
The District™s Educational Services department 
selects staff development concentrations based 
on principal feedback, teacher survey results, 
California State Standards, district benchmark 
assessment results, and state standardized test 
results. During the 2018-19 school year, Rainbow Ridge 
Elementary School held staff development training 
focused on:Ł Active Shooter
Ł AVID
Ł California Assessment of Student Performance 
  and Progress (CAASPP)Ł Conceptual MathŁ DATA
Ł Digital CitizenshipŁ DisciplineŁ English Learner Training
Ł iStationŁ Lockdown Procedures/School SafetyŁ Positive Behavior Intervention & Support   (PBIS)Ł Professional Learning CommunitiesŁ Response to InterventionŁ Restorative JusticeŁ Science, Technology, Engineering, Art, 
  Mathematics (STEAM)Ł Small Group InterventionŁ Technology
Ł Trauma Informed Care
Ł Vertical Articulation
Ł Wonders Curriculum
During the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 school 
years, Val Verde Unified School District provided 
professional development on the following topics: Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Special education staff, resource specialist staff, 
bilingual aides, and instructional aides receive 
customized training to support the district™s 
educational programs and develop strategies 
to increase effectiveness in teaching practices. 
Classified support staff receive job-related 
training from department supervisors and district 
representatives; training activities and workshops 
are designed to enhance and extend job 
performance. Long-term substitute teachers may 
be encouraged to participate in site-sponsored 
activities to enhance their understanding of Val 
Verde Unified School District™s curriculum and 
classroom management practices.SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 
is a responsibility shared among the principal, 
assistant principal, teachers, and parents. The 
principal and school™s leadership team shares in 
the decision-making and administrative processes 
to create an effective, safe, and nurturing learning 
environment. The school™s leadership team, 
comprised of the principal, assistant principal, 
instructional coach, special education teachers, 
classified staff, and grade level leaders, meets 
once a month to discuss current school activities, 
concerns, and needs of teachers and students. 
Team members are responsible for facilitating 
grade level team meetings as well as  serving as 
a liaison between grade level teams and school 
administration.The School Site Council (SSC), consisting of the 
principal, teachers, classified staff, and parents, 
is a major governing body that meets monthly 
to address school programs, discuss progress 
in meeting school goals, and serve as a liaison 
between the community and school administration. 
On an annual basis, the SSC is responsible for 
reviewing and approving the school site plan, 
safety plan, and budget.SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the 
California State Standards approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every child receives a 
rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned core 
program. Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 
structures its educational program so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to their 
learning level. To ensure the success of every 
student, teachers use a variety of instructional 
techniques using research-based instructional 
materials and strategies.SPECIAL EDUCATIONSpecial education students are provided instruction 
in the least restrictive environment. Special 
education teachers, special education aides, 
and general education teachers take a team-
oriented approach to provide maximum levels of 
instruction in the general education environment. 
Special ed students who are mainstreamed may 
receive individual and/or small group instruction 
from special education staff in either the Learning 
Center classes, the autism classes, or the special 
day classes. A District Program Specialist meets 
with special education teachers regularly to 
provide support and assistance in developing 
student teaching schedules and allocating staff 
resources.Each student is provided instruction based upon 
their Individualized Education Program (IEP), which 
is reviewed and updated annually by the school™s 
IEP teams. The IEP ensures that students with 
disabilities have equal access to core curriculum 
and educational opportunities and is used to 
coordinate specially-designed instruction based 
upon individual academic, social, and behavior 
needs.  ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of Rainbow Ridge Elementary™s teachers are 
certified and trained to provide instruction for 
students identified as English Learners (EL). All EL 
students receive English Language Development (ELD) instruction by their class teacher for 30 
minutes a day as a supplement to their regular 
language arts curriculum.  One bilingual aide collaborates with class teachers 
to provide in-class small group support based upon 
individual student needs. Lessons are delivered 
at every grade level to meet the needs of English 
Learners at ELPAC levels 1 and 2 and improve 
student understanding of subject area matter, 
concepts, and lessons. As students increase fluency in the English 
language, Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 
continues to monitor student performance through 
ELPAC results, benchmark assessments, report 
cards, and classroom observation to adjust 
instruction as needed to ensure continued success 
in acquiring the English language and proficiency 
in reading/language arts.  GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONRainbow Ridge Elementary School offers a Gifted 
and Talented Education program for students who 
have been recognized as high achievers by their 
teachers and through district testing. Both GATE 
and non-GATE high achievers are clustered by 
grade level to receive accelerated, differentiated 
instruction that offers more depth and complexity 
throughout the curriculum. GATE students are 
invited to participate in rotations on a weekly basis. 
Activities focus on technology, art, and the Literature 
Circle.AVIDRainbow Ridge Elementary School is an AVID 
elementary school.  AVID Elementary is a 
foundational component of the AVID College and 
Career Readiness System and supports AVID™s 
mission to close the achievement gap by preparing 
all students for college readiness and success 
in a global society.  Based on the same learning 
foundation that underlies AVID Secondary, AVID 
Elementary is designed to be embedded into the 
daily instruction of all elementary classrooms 
across entire grade levels to maintain school wide 
structures.  AVID Elementary™s implementation 
of resources, trainings, and philosophy are all 
grounded in the idea that growth mindset can 
be taught to students.  It is through the growth 
mindset that AVID students succeed in following 
their dreams and fulfilling their aspirations.  AVID 
Elementary takes a systemic approach through 
the use of WICOR (Writing, Inquiry, Collaboration, 
Organization, Reading) and an explicit focus on 
high expectations, rigor, and developing a college 
readiness culture.INTERVENTION PROGRAMSRainbow Ridge Elementary School supports 
intervention programs to meet the needs of 
those students not meeting state proficiency 
standards in reading, language arts, and math. 
Response to Intervention Teams comprised of 
school administrators, teachers, and parents work 
together to identify individualized intervention 
strategies for and monitor progress of students 
having difficulty with academic or social 
development. Formal intervention programs 
include:Ł Early Birds/Later Gators: the full-day kindergarten 
program is structured to support small group 
intervention activities geared to individualized 
modalities of learning. Students are divided 
into two groups - Early Birds and Later Gators. 
Early Birds arrive 60 minutes before whole class 
instruction begins and are engaged in small group 
activities. When Early Birds are released, Later 
Gators remain for their 60 minutes of small group 
instruction. Teachers are able to effectively support 
extremely small class sizes as a component of 
the students™ regular instructional day.
Ł THINK Together: students are referred by 
teachers or their parents to the program. 
Students are engaged in a highly structured 
program that provides homework assistance, 
tutoring, enrichment, recreational activities, and 
sports. THINK Together is offered after school 
until 6:00 p.m. five days a week.Ł Impact Substitute Teachers: Substitute 
teachers provide instruction for the whole class while the classroom teacher provides remedial 
skills building instruction for small groups of 
students who require remediation.Ł Impact Tutors: Instructional small group with 
kindergarten and first grade teachers in the 
classroom.PROFESSIONAL STAFFSUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, 
nurses, health technicians, and special education 
service providers. Through close collaboration, 
this expert team is instrumental in improving 
student attendance and achievement through 
the identification, referral, and remediation of 
health and/or emotional concerns. ˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙





ˇ
ˆ˝ˇ
˝‘˘ˇ˝˜

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˚˘˝˘
˘˘˛

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙˙
ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
The psychologist assists with academic, social, 
and emotional issues; provides assessments to determine eligibility for Special Education services; 
and facilitates coordination of Individualized 
Education Plans (IEP). The school nurse conducts 
Rainbow Ridge Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
health screening programs. Health technicians provide basic aid. As a participating member of the 
Riverside County Special Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), Val Verde Unified School District and 
Rainbow Ridge Elementary School have access to a full complement of professional resources and 
services to meet the individual needs of its students with disabilities. TEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, Avalon Elementary School had 34 teachers who met all credential 
requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number of teachers at 
both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching outside 
subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; 
and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number of positions filled 
by teachers who lack legal authorization to teach that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.DISTRICT EXPENDIT
URESEXPENDIT
URES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Verde Unified School District spent an average of $11,189 of total general 
funds to educate each student (based on 2017-18 audited financial statements and in 
accordance with 
calculations defined in Education Code §41372). The table in this report 1) compares the school™s per 
pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other schools in 
the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher salary at the school site with 
average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures 
and salaries can be found at the CDE web site at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/
fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, 
excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, 
state, and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:SALARY & BUDGET COMPARI
SONState law requires comparative salary and budget 
information to be reported to the general public. 
For comparison purposes, the State Department 
of Education has provided average salary data 
from school districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state.SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATAQUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at http://
dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional 
information about Rainbow Ridge Elementary 
School and comparisons of the school to the 
district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest 
provides reports for school accountability, including 
but not limited to, CAASPP results, Physical 
Fitness results, Suspensions and Expulsions, 
Dropout & Graduation Rates, enrollment, and 
staffing statistics
.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access Rainbow Ridge Elementary™s 
SARC and access the internet at any of the 
county™s public libraries.  The closest library to 
Rainbow Ridge Elementary is Moreno Valley Public 
Library located at 25480 Alessandro Blvd., Moreno 
Valley, CA 92553.
Moreno Valley Public Library Ł (951) 413-3880
Hours: Monday-Thursday 9-8            Friday 9-6            Saturday 9-5            Sunday 12-5Number of computers available: 15 adult   computers and 10 children™s computers
Number of printers available: 1








˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˘
˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
ˆˆˆ˝˘‘
’š€
ˇˇˇ
˘‡
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘–
ˇˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
ƒƒ––⁄‹
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

ˇˆ˝
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ†
“‘˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
“˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
’š
•
•
•
•
˘ˇ˘…˝˙˘—
–šƒ⁄‹
•
•
•
•
˘ˇ˘…›ˇ—
−š
−⁄‹
⁄⁄‰
⁄š
⁄€‰
“‘
ƒƒš”‹š”€€––ƒ‰”€š„‹––„€‰
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education 
  IncentiveŁ Career & Technical Education Program
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant 
  ProgramŁ College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Ongoing & Major Maintenance Account
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
