Lasselle Elementary School 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONVal Verde Unified School District is located in 
the heart of the Inland Empire, approximately 
72 miles east of Los Angeles. Neighboring the 
district and its communities are March Air Force 
Base and the Lake Perris recreational area.  
During the 2018-19 school year, the district™s 
schools served more than 20,200 students residing in the rural and suburban communities 
of Perris, Moreno Valley, and portions of 
unincorporated Riverside County. The district 
currently operates a preschool, 12 elementary 
schools, 4 middle schools, 3 comprehensive 
high schools, a student success academy, a 
virtual academy, and a continuation high school. 
During the 2018-19 school year, Lasselle 
Elementary School served 836 students in 
grades K-5. Student enrollment included 7.5% in 
special education, 15.7% qualifying for English 
learner support and 71.5% qualifying for free or 
reduced-price meals.  ˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ““‘
˘“
˘


˘
€

˘’
˘
•ˇˇ
…˚˙

–ˇƒ˙ˇ⁄
˜‹ˇ
›

—ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ–˚—ˇ
‰˙

•

€˚ˇ„—

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘˙ˆ˚ˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇˆ˝ˇ˝˙ˇ˙
”ˇ
‚˙


•ˇ™ˇ
”

ˇ
˙ˆ˚
Lasselle Elementary School opened its doors 
in 2005 to a large group of families eager to 
welcome a high quality educational program in 
their community. The principal leads a highly 
qualified, professional team offering a specially-
designed curriculum to meet the needs of 
every child. Rigorous academics, and a warm, 
positive school environment offer students the 
opportunity to learn and achieve their maximum 
potential.  In recognition of its outstanding 
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGEWelcome to Lasselle Elementary School!
At Lasselle Elementary our 
Mission is to empower scholars 
to take ownership of their learning 
and become productive citizens 
in an evolving society by creating 
a safe environment where 
scholars can grow emotionally, 
socially and academically.
Scholars receive instruction through an organized, 
sequential approach that is aligned to state 
standards through a collaborative effort with 
respective grade levels throughout the district. 
Students are supported in their academic efforts 
through a variety of programs and services that 
promote opportunity for all. 
Parents and guardians are encouraged and 
invited to participate in their child™s school career 
through membership in our parent organizations, 
learning activities via Back to School Night, parent-teacher conferences, Family Nights, helping in 
the classrooms, and attending school activities 
and events. Teachers and staff maintain open 
communication with families through notes, 
technology newsletters, websites, email, and 
telephone. As your Principal and instructional 
leader, I have an open door policy for my community 
in order to promote collaboration and equity for all 
of our scholars.We believe education is a collaboration amongst 
the teachers, parents, principal, students, and staff. 
We strive for academic excellence and intentionally 
invest in the social and emotional development of 
our scholars. 
A 2014 California Distinguished School
LASSELLE ELEMENTARY
 SCHOOL26446 Krameria Avenue, Moreno Valley, CA 92555
Phone: (951) 490-0350  Ł  Fax: (951) 490-0355Katie Ermert, Principal                         E-mail: kermert@valverde.edu Lasselle Elementary School 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
instructional program, Lasselle Elementary 
received the 2008 California Distinguished 
School award as well as most recently in 2014. LOCAL CONTROL ACCOUNTABILITY PLAN (LCAP)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP). The following components of this 
SARC address some of the priorities identified 
in the District™s LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are 
appropriately assigned and fully credentialed 
in the subject areas and for the pupils they are 
teaching; pupils have access to standards-
aligned Instructional materials and school 
facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the Textbooks 
chart; and School Facilities & Maintenance, 
including the Campus Description and School 
Facility Good Repair Status charts.Conditions of Learning (Implementation of State 
Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  Implementation of academic content and performance standards adopted by the state board for all pupils.  Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  Efforts 
to seek parent input in decision making, 
promotion of parent participation in programs 
for unduplicated pupils and special need 
subgroups.  Covered in Parent Involvement.Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score 
on Academic Performance Index, share of 
pupils that are college and career ready, 
share of English learners that become English 
proficient, English learner reclassification rate, 
share of pupils that pass Advanced Placement 
exams with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils 
determined prepared for college by the Early 
Assessment Program.  Covered in California 
Assessment of Student Performance and Progress, including the CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State 
Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic 
absenteeism rates, middle school dropout 
rates, high school dropout rates, and high 
school graduation rates.   Covered in Dropout 
Rates, including the Dropout chart; and 
Graduation Rates, including the Graduation 
Rate chart for high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, 
and parents and teachers on the sense of safety and school connectedness.  Covered in Discipline & Climate for Learning, including 
Suspension & Expulsion chart; and School Site 
Safety Plan.Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course of 
study that includes all of the subject areas.   Not 
covered in the School Accountability Report 
Card.Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in 
Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness 
Test chart..
PARENT INVOLVEMENT
Parent involvement is a vital component to school 
and student success. Lasselle Elementary 
School offers a wide variety of opportunities for 
parents to support the school and their child™s 
academic efforts through volunteering or simply 
attending special events and activities.  Parents 
seeking more information or who are interested 
in participating in any of the activities listed 
below may contact the school at (951) 490-0350.
Volunteer to help:
Ł in the classroom, library, or school office
Ł prepare classroom materialsŁ with playground supervisionŁ chaperone field tripsŁ chaperone school dances and activitiesŁ with PTO events
Ł with book fairsJoin leadership groups:Ł African American Advisory Council
Ł District Advisory Council (Title I)
Ł School Advisory Council (Title I)
Ł School Site CouncilŁ Parent Advisory Committee
Ł English Learner Advisory Council (ELAC)
Ł Gifted and Talented Education (GATE)
   Advisory Committee
Ł Parent Teacher Organization (PTO)
Attend/Participate in:Ł Back to School NightŁ Family Literacy NightŁ Family Math NightŁ Family Science NightŁ Parent-Teacher Conferences
Ł Parent Workshops
Ł Student PerformancesSchool-to-home communication is provided 
in both English and Spanish. The principal 
communicates via the Parent Link (text and 
email messages) several times during the school year which features information regarding 
school policy, special events, announcements, 
and helpful parent/student tips. Blackboard Connect, an automated telephone messaging 
system, is used weekly to quickly relay important announcements and reminders to every 
student™s home. The school, PTO, and teachers 
have web sites available to keep parents 
apprised of school and classroom news and 
activities. Flyers, letters, the school marquee, 
and the Val Verde App are used to share special 
events information and/or remind parents of 
holidays and other calendared items.STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT
DISTRICT BENCHMARK
 ASSESSMENTSVal Verde Unified School District uses a variety 
of tools to evaluate and analyze student learning. District benchmark assessments supplement 
multiple measures of assessment to identify 
students™ mastery of content, depth of knowledge, 
and skills. District benchmark assessments are 
aligned to the California State Standards and 
are comprised of both formative and summative assessments given in math, reading, and 
language arts. During the 2018-19 school year, 
all students in grades 1-5 were assessed multiple 
times utilizing a system of short-cycle formative 
assessments to identify content area mastery and 
specific gaps in the learning process.  Students in 
grades 7-12 were evaluated quarterly throughout 
the year to determine course grades and levels of 
content mastery. 
Multiple measures of assessment are used 
to identify student progress, understanding of 
state content standards, and mastery of subject area matter/concepts. These measures include: 
state summative assessments, benchmark assessments, grade level/department common 
assessments, classroom observations, teacher-
created assessments, adaptive diagnostic 
assessments in reading and math, and early 
indicators of reading assessments. Collectively, 
the benchmark assessments and multiple 
measures aid teachers in 1) identifying areas 
where instruction may or may not be effective; 
2) guiding classroom instruction practices and 
strategies; and 3) identifying students who need 
targeted academic assistance or intervention. Teachers and administrators are able to pinpoint 
any deficiencies or gaps in the learning process, 
identifying very specific skill sets and subject area 
content that needs to be retaught, reinforced, or 
revised to ensure every student obtains a solid foundation for future success in learning.CALIFORNIA ASSESSMENT OF STUDENT PERFORMANCE
 AND PROGRESSThe California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education population, and the California Alternate 
Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible 
students may participate in the administration of the CAAs.  CAAs items are aligned with 
alternative achievement standards, which are 
linked with the Common Core State Standards 
(CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of 
how well students are mastering California™s 
standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to grades three 
through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests 
and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are 
aligned with alternative achievement standards 
which are linked with the Common Core State 
Standards (CCSS). Lasselle Elementary School 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SCHOOL FACILITIES & 
SAFETYFACILITIES PROFILELasselle Elementary School provides a safe, 
clean environment for learning through proper 
facilities maintenance and campus supervision. 
Original school buildings were constructed in 
2005; ongoing maintenance ensures school 
facilities are kept safe and in good working 
condition and continue to provide adequate 
space for students and staff. 
2018-19 Campus Improvements:Ł Painting of the playgroundŁ Installation of flooring where neededŁ Addition of asphalt
2019-20 Campus Improvements in Progress:Ł Painting of the exteriorŁ Installation of outdoor building lightsŁ Addition of 21st Century furniture in all 
  classrooms˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘
˙˚˝˙˝
˙˚˙˝
˙˝˙˙
˚˙
˙˘†
˚˝˙
’š˚˛•˚
’‘˘˛˝
’‡˘“ˇ˝˚˙
’…˙—˝
–…˙
’⁄˚˛•€˚˝˙‹›˙
’…⁄−‰‡˙‘˛
’˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

ˆ

˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘


˝˘ˆ•˘˘ˆ˚šˆ˝˛
……………………………………………………˘
……………………………………………………‘˚


–ˆˆƒ˝˛˘˚


⁄˛


˜›˚ˆˆ−


˝˙˙‰ˆ„˝˘˛



ˇ‹ˆ


˛ˆ›˛‹ˆ„˛


‘˛ˆ‚‹
……………………………………………………˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
‘˙‘ˇ˙˚˘’


˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝ˆ˙˙ˆˇ˚˘˚˘ˇ
ˆˇ˛˝˘
˝ˇˇ˚˚˚˚˝
˙ˆˇ˛˛˝ˇ˚˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚˘˘ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚˘˚˛˝˛
ˆ
ˆ˙˝˘ˆˇ˝˘˚
˚˘˚ˇ
˚
††“
˜
The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown 
only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 
in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the 
California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/
.PHYSICAL FITNESSIn the spring of every other year, Lasselle 
Elementary School is required by the state to 
administer a physical fitness test to all students 
in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test 
measures each student™s ability to complete six 
fitness tasks in six major areas. Students that either meet or exceed the standards in all six 
fitness areas are considered to be physically 
fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative 
district and state results can be found at the CDE™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
Lasselle Elementary School 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SCHOOL INSPECTIONSLasselle Elementary School and the Val Verde 
Unified School District™s Maintenance and 
Operations Department (M&O) work together to 
ensure student safety and uphold high cleaning 
standards. M&O supervisors and school 
administration inspect facilities on a continual 
basis to identify and resolve concerns in a 
proactive and timely manner. The most recent 
facilities inspection at Lasselle Elementary 
School took place on July 16, 2019. Schools are 
required by state law to report the condition of 
their facilities; the School Facility Good Repair 
Status table illustrated below identifies the state-required inspection areas and discloses the 
operational status in each of those areas.  During 
fiscal year 2019-20, all restrooms were fully 
functional and available for student use at the 
time of the inspection.
SUPERVISION AND SAFETYEach morning as students arrive on campus, 
three supervision aides are stationed in the 
cafeteria parking lot and assigned teachers 
are located on the playground to provide 
supervision and monitor behavior. During 
recess and lunch, two supervision aides monitor student behavior and activities in the cafeteria and on the playground. Assigned 
teachers supervise during dismissal to ensure 
students leave campus in a safe and orderly 
manner.
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain a 
safe and secure environment, all parents and visitors are required to check in at the school 
office upon arrival and present valid picture 
identification, obtain and wear a visitor™s badge, 
and then return to the school office to sign out  
upon departure. All visitors must be cleared to 
enter and exit.SCHOOL SITE SAFETY PLANThe Comprehensive School Site Safety 
Plan was developed for Lasselle Elementary 
School in collaboration with local agencies 
and the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 
requirements.  The Val Verde Unified School 
District partners with Hour-Zero for school emergency response planning, management, 
consulting, and training. Hour-Zero  specialists support district and school staff with the 
ongoing development of a comprehensive 
emergency preparedness program to address 
critical components of emergency response 
planning and compliance with federal and state 
requirements.Components of Lasselle Elementary™s school 
safety plan include child abuse reporting 
procedures, teacher notification of dangerous 
pupil procedures, disaster response 
procedures, procedures for safe arrival and 
departure from school, sexual harassment 
policy, dress code policy, and bullying 
prevention policy. The school™s most current 
safety plan was reviewed, updated, and shared 
with school staff in March 2019. Routine safety 
drills are held throughout the school year.
of equipment and safety procedures are led 
by district risk management representatives, vendors, and department supervisors. The 
district™s Operations Supervisor visits Lasselle 
Elementary School monthly to review custodial 
performance, discuss campus maintenance needs with the principal, evaluate conditions of 
the school facility, and follow up on outstanding 
work order requests.CLASSROOM ENVIRONMENTCLASS SIZE The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes for each 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students.


˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝
˜˝
˘˛˝
˘˙˝˛
˝˜
˘˝˜
ˇ˝
˜˝
˘˛˝
˙˝
˘˝
˘˘˝˛˘
ˇ˝
˜˝
˘˛˝
˘˙˝˜
˝˜˘
˘˝˜˘
˝˜


˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝



†
‘’š

MAINTENANCE & REPAIRSSchool custodial staff and the district™s 
maintenance department work together to 
ensure playing fields, classrooms, and campus 
grounds are well-maintained and kept safe 
and functioning for students, staff, and visitors. 
Maintenance and Operations (M&O) continues 
to employ an electronic work order process 
to facilitate and improve services to Lasselle 
Elementary School.  Teachers and school staff 
communicate unscheduled maintenance needs, 
urgent repairs, or special projects to designated 
custodial and office support staff who prepare 
and submit work orders to M&O for resolution. DAILY CLEANING PRACTICESOne full-time day custodian, one part-time 
mid day custodian, and one full-time evening 
custodian are assigned to Lasselle Elementary 
School and work closely with the principal for 
routine maintenance, daily custodial duties, and 
special events. The principal and custodians 
communicate daily to discuss campus cleaning 
needs and safety concerns. Every morning before school begins, the custodian inspects 
facilities for safety hazards, graffiti, and other 
conditions that require immediate attention or removal prior to students and staff entering 
school grounds. Custodians are responsible for cleaning campus 
grounds, classrooms, restrooms, and common 
areas to ensure facilities remain in good working 
condition, clean, and safe for students, staff, 
and visitors. The custodians are required to 
inspect restrooms a minimum of two times 
a day and subsequently document restroom 
inspections in their daily inspection log. All 
custodians follow approved district standards 
and procedures for routine custodial functions 
and campus maintenance. Groundskeepers are 
on campus once a week and are responsible for 
general gardening and maintenance work such 
as trash and debris removal, landscaping care, 
irrigation system maintenance, and playing field 
maintenance. Each custodian is provided one week of 
intensive training upon employment.  Thereafter, 
training is coordinated by district maintenance 
supervisors and custodial staff meetings are 
held twice annually. Training activities in use 
Lasselle Elementary School 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISCIPLINE & CLIMATE
 FOR LEARNINGA safe, clean school and an effective learning program provide the basis for Lasselle Elementary 
School™s discipline program. School staff support an environment that teaches students, through 
the daily curriculum, the skills to resolve conflicts and take responsibility for their decisions. The 
schoolwide discipline plan focuses on a positive approach to managing  disruptive behavior; 
students are given the opportunity to learn from their mistakes and take responsibility in making 
good choices in an effort to take an active role in changing their behavior.
The Multiple Tiered System of Support (MTSS) has been implemented at Lasselle Elementary 
School. The Multiple Tiered System of Support was integrated with the SPOTS program.  The 
Multiple Tiered System of Support provides intentional structures for student success through 
positive behavior expectations.School and classroom rules are posted in each classroom.  Students work together at the beginning of the year to collaborate and develop classroom rules. At the beginning of the school year, school 
rules, district policies, and academic expectations are (1) outlined in the ﬁSchool Guideﬂ (provided in 
both English and Spanish), (2) shared by teachers as part of the classroom orientation process and 
at Back to School Night, and (3) reinforced at behavioral assemblies. Progressive disciplinary measures begin in the classroom when students are disruptive or 
demonstrating poor citizenship. When students continue having difficulty following school rules, 
teachers refer students to the principal for further intervention. Consequences and disciplinary 
action are based upon the student™s past behavioral trend and severity of infraction. 
Students demonstrating positive behavior or reaching academic goals are rewarded by their teachers 
with Character Count Cards. Once a month, teachers nominate one student from their class for the 
Student of the Month award; recipients are acknowledged for their outstanding efforts in academics 
and citizenship.  Two students from the school are chosen each month for the Superintendent™s 
Award in honor of their excellent efforts in academics and citizenship. At the end of each trimester, 
awards assemblies are held to recognize students for their achievements. Honors include Perfect 
Attendance, Honor Roll, and Principal™s Honor Roll.
ENRICHMENT
 ACTIVITIESStudents have the opportunity to participate in extracurricular activities. The extracurricular/
enrichment activities offered at Lasselle Elementary include band, chorus, Associated Student Body 
(ASB), and GATE (Gifted and Talented Education).
CURRICULUM & INSTRUCTIONSTAFF DEVELOPMENTAll curriculum and instructional improvement activities at Val Verde Unified School District are 
aligned to the 
California State Standards. The district™s Educational Services Department selects 
staff development concentrations based on principal feedback, teacher survey results, California 
State Standards, district benchmark assessment results, and state standardized test results. During the 2018-19 school year, Lasselle Elementary School held staff development training focused 
on:Ł 6 C™s for 21st Century Learning
Ł AVID
Ł Common Core State StandardsŁ Conceptual MathŁ Early LiteracyŁ Multiple Tiered System of Support (MTSS)
Ł Response to Intervention (RtI)Ł STEAM Training
Ł Technology Support
During the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 school years, Val Verde Unified School District provided 
professional development on the following topics: ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛

ˇ

˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆ˙

˜˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘ˇ
˘ˇˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
˘˘
˘˘˘
˘†“‘†’˘š˘€“˘

˘’’••
˘‡
˘†’˘’š˘…
˘—˘–˘
˘˘˘ƒ–⁄
˘—˘–˘˘
˘˘
˘’‰˘˘
„
˘’’••
˘‚‰˘˘’
˘˘
˘…š˘’†’˘…˘

˘˘˘
˘•–
˘•“˘

˘‚„˘–›˘…˘

˘…˘

˘™•˘’˘
˘ﬁ˘˘“
During the 2019-20 school year, teachers 
also had the opportunity to participate in the 
following professional development trainings:Ł Restorative Practices & Restorative CirclesŁ Classroom Management Techniques
Ł K-2 Literacy Intervention: Diagnostics &   Instructional StrategiesŁ Inclusive PracticesŁ Redefining ﬁGiftednessﬂŁ Summer EL Institute
Ł Lego Education for STEAM LearningŁ Math Instructional Routines ﬁCapturing   QuantitiesﬂVal Verde Unified School District welcomes 
new teachers and provides intensive training 
to help them experience success in their 
new classrooms. For ongoing professional 
guidance, the district supports new and veteran 
teachers in developing their teaching skills. 
California Teachers Induction (CTID) program, 
a state-sponsored program, is designed for 
first- and second-year credentialed teachers 
and provides skills assistance over a two-year period. The Peer Assistance and Review 
program is designed to improve the education 
of students and increase the classroom 
performance of teachers, targeting both new 
and veteran teachers. Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. 
New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/
teacher leaders, administrators, and support staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the district and Riverside County Lasselle Elementary School 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SCHOOL LEADERSHIPLeadership at Lasselle Elementary is a 
responsibility shared among the principal, 
teachers, and parents. The principal, assistant 
principal, instructional coach, and teachers are responsible for the day-to-day operations and 
overall curriculum. The school™s leadership 
team, grade level teams, program facilitators, 
and School Site Council share in the decision-
making and administrative processes to create 
an effective, safe, and nurturing learning 
environment.The school™s leadership team, comprised 
of the principal, assistant principal, grade 
level facilitators, and program facilitators, 
meets bimonthly to collaboratively address 
school issues, operational concerns, and 
staff development needs. Team members are 
responsible for supporting the site in leading 
program implementation within their areas of 
responsibility and serving as a liaison to their 
respective teams.The School Site Council (SSC), consisting of 
school staff and parents, is a major governing 
body that meets monthly to address school programs, discuss progress in meeting school 
goals, and serve as a liaison between the community and school administration. On an annual basis, the SSC is responsible for 
reviewing and approving the school site plan, 
safety plan, and budget.SPECIALIZED INSTRUCTIONAll curriculum and instruction is aligned to the California State Standards and approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every child receives 
a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned core 
program. Lasselle Elementary School structures 
its educational program so that all students receive instruction appropriate to their learning 
level. To ensure the success of every student, 
teachers use a variety of instructional techniques 
using research-based instructional materials and 
strategies.Office of Education. Professional and subject-
specific offerings are consistent with the 
California State Standards. Special education staff, resource specialist 
staff, bilingual aides, and instructional aides 
receive customized training to support the 
district™s educational programs and develop 
strategies to increase effectiveness in teaching 
practices. Classified support staff receive job-
related training from department supervisors 
and district representatives; training activities 
and workshops are designed to enhance and 
extend job performance. Long-term substitute teachers may be encouraged to participate 
in site-sponsored activities to enhance 
their understanding of Val Verde Unified 
School District™s curriculum and classroom 
management practices.INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALSAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Val Verde Unified School District 
are being aligned to the California State 
Standards. Instructional materials for grades K-8 are selected from the state™s most recent 
list of standards-based materials and adopted 
by the State Board of Education. Instructional 
materials for grades 9-12 are standards-
based and approved by the district™s Board of 
Education.  On September 3, 2019, the Val Verde Unified 
School District™s Board of Education held a 
public hearing to certify the extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Board of Education 
adopted Resolution No.19-20-10 which certifies 
as required by Education Code §60119 1) that 
textbooks and instructional materials were 
provided to all students, including English 
learners, in the district to the extent that each 
pupil has a standards-aligned textbook or 
instructional materials, or both, to use in class 
and to take home, 2) sufficient textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English learners, that are 
aligned to the academic content standards 
and are consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks in mathematics, 
science, history-social science, and English/language arts, including the English language 
development component of an adopted 
program, 3) sufficient textbooks or instructional 
materials were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign language or health classes, and 4) 
sufficient laboratory science equipment was 
available for science laboratory classes offered 
in grades 9-12 inclusive. Within a six-week period prior to adoption, parents may preview 
recommended instructional materials at the 
district office or the school™s designated area.
In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for 
its visual/performing arts curricula.  During the 
2019-20 school year, Val Verde Unified School 
District certifies that each student, including 
English learners, enrolled in a visual/performing 
arts class has been provided with a textbook 
or supplemental materials to use in class and 
to take home. These materials comply with the 
California State Standards.SPECIAL EDUCATIONLasselle Elementary™s special education 
program is staffed by three special education 
teachers and four special education 
paraprofessionals. Each student is provided 
instruction within and outside the general 
education environment based  upon their IEP. 
The IEP ensures that students with disabilities 
have equal access to core curriculum and 
educational opportunities and is used to 
coordinate specially-designed instruction 
based upon individual academic, social, and 
behavioral needs.  Each student™s IEP is 
reviewed and updated annually by the IEP 
team.ENGLISH LEARNER INSTRUCTIONAll of Lasselle Elementary™s teachers are 
certified and trained to provide instruction 
for students identified as English Learners 
(EL). EL students receive English Language 
Development (ELD) instruction by their class 
teacher for 30 minutes a day as a supplement to their regular language arts curriculum. Using 
specially-designed Wonders by Houghton 
Mifflin materials, ELD instruction focuses 
on reading development, verbal language 
development, and vocabulary building. One 
bilingual aide collaborates with class teachers 
to provide in-class small group support based 
upon individual student needs. As students 
increase fluency in the English language, 
Lasselle Elementary School continues to 
monitor student performance through ELPAC 
results, benchmark assessments, and 
classroom observation to adjust instruction 
as needed to ensure continued success in 
acquiring the English language and proficiency 
in reading/language arts.  GIFTED AND TALENTED EDUCATIONLasselle Elementary School offers a Gifted and 
Talented Education program for students who 
have been recognized as high achievers by 
their teachers and through district testing. GATE 
students are clustered by grade level to receive 
accelerated, differentiated instruction that 
offers more depth and complexity throughout 
the curriculum. GATE students are invited to 
participate in after-school activities held once 
a week. These theme-based activities focus on 
special projects.˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚ˆ˘ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘
˙ˇˇ˚˛ˇ
˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘
˚ˆ˙ˇ˚ˆ˙
˜˚˛†˙ˆˇ˘˘˘

“ˆ
“˘“ˆ
˙˘
‘ˆ’
ˇ˘“ˆˇ
˘˘ˇ˘
‡˘˘…
‘ˇˇˆ—ˇ˘
˘ƒ˘
ˇ
’ˆ˘⁄˘˘
›˘“ˆ˘
‘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
‰ˇ‘ˇ
ˇ
Lasselle Elementary School 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
AVIDLasselle is an AVID elementary school.  AVID Elementary is a foundational component of the 
AVID College Readiness System and supports AVID™s mission to close the achievement gap by 
preparing all students for college readiness and success in a global society.  Based on the same 
learning foundation that underlies AVID Secondary, AVID Elementary is designed to be embedded 
into the daily instruction of all elementary classrooms across entire grade levels to maintain school 
wide structures.  AVID Elementary™s implementation of resources, trainings, and philosophy are 
all grounded in the idea that growth mindset can be taught to students.  It is through the growth 
mindset that AVID students succeed in following their dreams and fulfilling their aspirations.  AVID 
Elementary takes a systemic approach through the use of WICOR (Writing, Inquiry, Collaboration, 
Organization, Reading) and an explicit focus on high expectations, rigor, and developing a college 
readiness culture.Goals: 1) Writing essential standards; level of rigor
2) Unit/lesson planning; sharing strategies; CFA
3) Collectively provide interventions for those who need additional time and support4) Extension/enrichmentINTERVENTION PROGRAMSLasselle Elementary School supports intervention programs to meet the needs of those students not 
meeting state proficiency standards in reading, language arts, and math. Response to Intervention 
(RtI) Teams comprised of school administrators, teachers, and parents work together to identify 
individualized intervention strategies and monitor progress of students having difficulty with 
academic or social development. Formal intervention programs include:Ł Think Together: students are referred by teachers or their parents to the program. Students are 
engaged in a highly structured program that provides homework assistance, tutoring, enrichment, 
recreational activities, and sports. Think Together is offered after school until 6:00 p.m. five days a 
week.Ł Impact Substitute Teachers (two): substitute teachers in the morning and in the afternoon provide 
support to regular classroom teachers who conduct small group intervention in reading and math.Ł Impact Tutors (two): During the school day intervention is provided to students through 
differentiated small group instruction.  The tutors utilize instructional resources and strategies that 
address each student™s academic needs based on their Istation ISIP assessment results
PROFESSIONAL STAFFTEACHER ASSIGNMENTDuring the 2018-19 school year, Lasselle Elementary School had 33 teachers who met all credential 
requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number of 
teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total 
teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the 
number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal authorization to teach that grade level, subject 
area, student group, etc.SUPPORT SERVICES STAFFSupport services staff consist of psychologists, 
nurses, health technicians, and special 
education service providers. Through close 
collaboration, this expert team is instrumental 
in improving student attendance and 
achievement through the identification, referral, 
and remediation of health and/or emotional 
concerns. The psychologist assists with academic, social, 
and emotional issues, provides assessments to determine eligibility for Special Education 
services, and facilitates coordination of 
Individual Education Plans (IEP). The school 
nurse conducts health screening programs. 
Health technicians provide basic aid. As a 
participating member of the Riverside County 
Special Education Local Plan Area (SELPA), 
Val Verde Unified School District and Lasselle 
Elementary School have access to a full 
complement of professional resources and 
services to meet the individual needs of its 
students with disabilities. SARC DATA & INTERNET ACCESSDATAQUESTDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about Lasselle 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.PUBLIC INTERNET ACCESS LOCATIONParents may access Lasselle Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the internet at any 
of the county™s public libraries.  The closest 
library to Lasselle Elementary School is 
Moreno Valley Public Library located at 25480 
Alessandro Blvd., Moreno Valley, CA 92553.
Moreno Valley Public Library 
(951) 413-3880Hours: Monday-Thursday 9-8            Friday 9-6            Saturday 9-5  
       Sunday 12-5Number of computers available: 15 adult 
computers and 10 children™s computers
Number of printers available: 1˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˘
˝˜˚˝ˆˇ˘
ˇˇ˜ˆ˝˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘—
ˇˇˇˇ˝–
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ

——ƒ⁄
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˜

ˇ

ˆ˘ˇˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙˝
˙
ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙˙

˙˙˙˙ˇ˘˘˙˝‘
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ

Lasselle Elementary School 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT EXPENDIT
URESSALARY & BUDGET COMPARI
SONState law requires comparative salary and budget 
information to be reported to the general public. 
For comparison purposes, the State Department 
of Education has provided average salary data 
from school districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state.EXPENDIT
URES PER STUDENTFor the 2017-18 school year, Val Verde Unified 
School District spent an average of $11,189 
of total general funds to educate each student 
(based on 2017-18 audited financial statements 
and in accordance with calculations defined in 
Education Code §41372). The table in this report 1) 
compares the school™s per pupil expenditures from 
unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) 
sources with other schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average 
teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. 
Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE web site at www.
cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect 
the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and 
construction, and certain other expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Val Verde Unified School District receives state and federal 
categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district received federal, 
state, and local aid for the following categorical, special education, and support programs:Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Program
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł College Readiness Block GrantŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Ongoing & Major Maintenance Account
Ł Other Local: Locally DefinedŁ Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III, IX
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education









˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝
ˇ

ˇˇ
˘
ˇˇ
ˇ
†˛˝
ˇ

˘˝
“˘ˇ˘˘ˇ˘˝ˆ
‘’
•
•
•
•
“˘ˇ˘…˝˙˘—
•
•
•
•
˘ˇ˘…⁄ˇ—
ƒš€
‘’
ƒƒ›
‹’‘−‹
‹š›
†
‰š’−−‹ƒ–’ƒšš„−‰›ƒš’−–„„−š›
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˛˙ˆ˝˝˝
ˇ

˛˝˙˘˘
