 
 
The Mission of RSA 
 
The mission of Redding School of the Arts, where education and 
the arts connect, is to educate K
-
8 students who have an  interest 
in visual and performing arts and cultivate their knowledge and 
skills for the betterment of their local and global community. 
 
Utilizing an inter
-
disciplinary, theme based approach, students 
will learn to read, write, speak, problem solve, use technology 
and sustainable practices. 
 
RSA seeks to accomplish its goal of high academic and behavioral standards through a student 
centered, multicultural and multi
-
lingual environment with an emphasis on the arts. This charter 
school will enable students to become literate, self
-
motivated and life
-
long learners who partici-
pate in the art of their community.
 
Charter Authorizer: Columbia Elementary School District:  Clay Ross 
Superintendent : 




-

 
Basic Facts
 


California Creative 
School Award
 


Confucius  Classroom
 


California Green Rib-
bon School Award
 


Charter school with a 
focus on visual and   
performing arts
 


Mandarin Immersion 
Dual Language pro-
gram (K

5th)  Leveled 
Mandarin classes (6th
-
8th)
 


Grades offered:         
Kindergarten through 
eighth 
 


4th

 
8th VAPA Elec-
tive Program & K
-
3rd 
VAPA Enrichment 
 
S
CHOOL ACCOUNTABILITY 
REPORT CARD FOR 2018
-
2019 
 
Redding School of the Arts 
 
Key Factor
 
Our 
School
 
Student enrollment
 
609
 
Number of full
-
time     
equivalent teachers
 
26.4
 
Average number of 
students per teacher
 
26
 
ADDRESS
:
 
 
 
955 Inspiration Place, Redding, CA 96003
 
PHONE: 
 
 
 
(530)247
-
6933
 
WEBSITE:
  
 
 
www.rsarts.org 
 
 
DIRECTOR:
 
 
 
Margaret Johnson (
mjohnson@rsarts.org
) 
 
CDS CODE:
 
 
45699480134122
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
2
 
Major Achievements
 
*    Redding School of the Arts
 

20th Anniversary .  
We feel privileged to have 
provided twenty years of quality education for the students of our community and thank 
the founders, Jean Hatch and Margaret Johnson for their vision and dedication to connect-
ing education to the arts in such a meaningful way.  
 




  
The audience took a mystical journey to 
 

 
Mulan.  
 
 

 



 
won Gold level rating and first place overall in their Division. 
 
Our Glee Jr. com-
petitors also won Gold level rating and second place overall in elementary division.  
 


Middle School Students participated in the  annual juried middle school art completion and claimed 13 
awards.  In addition , 12 students placed 1st 
-

 




 




 
3 student groups received Superior and one piano soloist 
received an excellent rating. 
 


In March of 2019 an 8th grade student was offered a full ride scholarship of $65,000.00 to attend the pres-
tigious Idyllwild Arts Academy for High School. 
 


In March our two Odyssey of  The Mind Teams competed and our 2nd grade team took 1st place and our 
1st
-
4th grade team took 3rd.
 


Our Middle School Math Counts team competed again this year  and our  math team took 2nd place out 
of 15 schools county
-
wide and an eighth
-
grade student, took 4th place out of 140 students overall.
 
Redding School of the Arts is a K
-
8 visual and performing arts charter school in Northern California. 
The school believes when it comes to young minds, the arts enrich, expand and prepare students to 
become vibrant, fully contributing members of their communities and the larger society.  Children 
engaged in music and arts programs not only do 
better in other academic subjects than children not 
engaged in the arts, 
but also have better 
attendance, increased 
self
-
esteem, and coop-
erate more fully with 
teachers and peers. 
Additionally, Redding 
School of the Arts is 
the only school in the 
far Northern Califor-
nia region to offer a 
Mandarin immersion 
program for its elementary grades.  
 
Our School Defined
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
3
 
Twelve years ago RSA began a Mandarin Immersion program. To fur-
ther the cultural depth of the program, RSA worked with HanBan and 
the Asia Society to help support and enhance our program.
 
In Addition, our Mandarin Immersion Program was awarded the honor 
of a Confucius Classroom. This program unites us with a sister school 
in China in addition to also provid-

Our sister school  is Shijiazhuang 

This school is located in the province 
of Hebei, Northeastern China.  
 
RSA believes learning a second lan-
guage occurs best in a variety of set-
tings and styles providing insight in-

Bilingual learning enhances intellec-
tual development, basic skills, perfor-

guage as well as providing positive effects on memory, listening, and 
critical thinking skills. The goals of the Mandarin Immersion Program 
are to achieve high levels of listening, speaking, reading, and writing 
proficiency in both English and Mandarin.  Participation in Major Chi-
nese cultural festivals and events , such as Chinese New Year and the 
Moon Festival, also contributes to the understanding of the language.
 

sion program .  Curriculum is maximized to in-
crease proficiency in both English and Mandarin 
across all grade levels.  The immersion program is 
offered in grades Kindergarten through fifth.  In 
middle school, our students are able to continue 
with their Mandarin studies as a period during 
their regular school day.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefits of learning a     
second language at an 
early age:
 


Has a positive effect 
on intellectual growth 
and  enriches and   
enhances a child's 
mental development
 


Leaves students with 
more flexibility in 
thinking, greater   
sensitivity to         
language, and a better 
ear for listening
 


Improves a child's 
understanding of his/
her native language
 


Gives a child the  
ability to communi-
cate with people s/he 
would otherwise not 
have the chance to 
know
 


Opens the door to 
other cultures and 
helps a child           
understand and      
appreciate people 
from other countries
 


Gives a student a 
head start in language             
requirements for    
college
 


Increases job           
opportunities in 
many careers where 
knowing another   
language is a real   
asset. 
 
(Center for 
 
Applied Linguistics)
 
Mandarin Immersion Program
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
4
 
 
Academics
 
Student  Learning Objectives (SLOs)
 


Implement, monitor and review LCAP Goals
 


Develop, Monitor and Implement 2014
-
2019 Technology Plan
 


Continue to implement assessment tools to focus & differentiated 
 
 
instruction in academic areas
 


Continue involvement in the community through a variety of art, 
 
performance, and academic based programs
 


Continue to implement school
-
wide Behavior Expectations: Positive 
 
School Climate
 
Focus For Improvement
 
SLO 1: Technology
 
Students will demonstrate increased proficiency using technology to increase access to Common Core Math, English Lan-
guage Arts (ELA) and Visual and Performing Arts curricula. 
 
 

applications.  Students across all grade levels are exposed to computers and educational programs 
such as: MobyMax (math, reading, social studies) and Lexia (reading) , Imagine Learning etc. 
Teachers are able to assess and monitor student learning in basic skills and can communicate this 
quickly to students and parents.  In 2014, all 6th graders received Chromebooks that they will use 
for their middle school career.  Students thus have access to their documents at home, and if 
 
 
students lack computer access at home, time is made available for these students to access Internet 
at school or after school.  Technology is used in math and science classes for graphing information 
as well as in the music classes for note reading and composition.  Students also use technology 
when participating in the Spring Musical as they act as stage crew hands. Students use technology 
to 
 
create PowerPoint presentations and videos.  Middle School students are learning across differ-
ent platforms and are using Google applications such as Google Docs, Google Slides and Google 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
5
 
sites to create academic products. The school encourages parents and students to use the school website 
and teacher pages along with the Aeries online gradebook to keep current on student grades. 
 
SLO 2: ELA
 
Students will demonstrate increasing sophistication in all aspects of language use from vocabulary and syntax to the 
development and organization of ideas and will address increasingly demanding content and sources. 
 
 
The SLO adopted for English Language Arts is 
reflective of the Common Core standards and 

theme
-
based instruction incorporates historical 
fiction as well as nonfiction texts to help stu-
dents access language arts standards.  During 
the 2017
-
2018 school year, continued  RSA con-
tinued with the implementation of state ap-
proved, common core aligned, English Lan-
guage Arts curriculum to increase exposure and 
depth of knowledge for our students.
 
 
SLO 3: Math
 
Students will demonstrate conceptual understanding and proficiency in mathematics through reasoning, modeling 
and defending their thinking and solving problems in multiple ways as evidenced through formal and informal 
assessment. 
 
 
The SLO adopted for math shows that RSA is committed to improving student performance in math.  
The school utilized the College Preparatory 
Math (CPM) program for grades six through 
eight.  This program reflects the Common 
Core standards for math; the program is set up 
to encourage active student engagement, group 
work and collaboration and the development of 
skills in all math strands.  
 
The primary and intermediate grades contin-
ued their use of Envision Math and collaborat-
ed across grade levels to improve the sequence 

leadership team continued to look at math test 
scores, curriculum, such as MobyMax,  the 
content and sequence of  the Envision Math 
Student  Learning Objectives (SLOs) Continued
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
6
 
Student Enrollment and Subgroups
 
Program  to monitor effectiveness.  They were also 
instrumental in the development of an intervention 
class for middle school and 5th grade students to 
help support the needs of students for mastery of 
basic skills while realigning the sequence of lessons 
to better reflect cognitive abilities of learners. The 
school also continued with the implementation of a 
Mandarin version of Envision math to supplement 
the math program in the Mandarin immersion pro-
gram K
-
5.  This program will help to improve math 
skills in grades K
-
5, along with the Envision pro-
gram that is already being implemented in English 
classrooms to which all students have access.
 
Student  Learning Objectives 
-
Continued
 
Grade Level
 
Number of 
Students
 
Kindergarten
 
77
 
Grade 1
 
86
 
Grade 2
 
65
 
Grade 3
 
77
 
Grade 4
 
72
 
Grade 5
 
62
 
Grade 6
 
54
 
Grade 7
 
57
 
Grade 8
 
59
 
Total Enrollment
 
609
 

-

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
7
 
The Philosophy and Learning Conditions of RSA 
 
Thematic Learning
 
As a public school, RSA must teach the materials mandated by the State Curriculum Standards for 
grades K
-
8.  However, as a charter school, RSA has the discretion to teach those materials in innova-

-
based, meaning that the 
curriculum in language arts, social studies, science, art, music and math is integrated to support learn-
ing across all disciplines.  Consequently when students are studying ancient civilizations in social 
studies, their language arts reading books and vocabulary/spelling words relate to Rome, Greece and 
other ancient cultures.  Likewise, their science will  focus on physics, alchemy, astronomy and such.  
Their studies in art and music further support those themes.  
 
Student Enrollment and Subgroups

 
Cont.
 

 


 

 

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
8
 
Academics
 
While students attending RSA have a real interest in the arts, they also have specific and individual 
academic needs. Each year, RSA assesses students in academic disciplines and makes adjustments to 
class structure to meet student need. For example, students who are 
not in the same grade level but  exhibit similar learning styles or aca-
demic aptitude may be placed together in a homeroom.  Another level 
of mathematics may be offered if enough students show a need for it. 
In other words, students at RSA are not constrained by the traditional 

and meeting the needs of students as individuals.
 
One unique draw to RSA is its Theme Days.  Theme Days are cele-
brated by the entire school,  K
-
8, along with parents and community 
members.  RSA has two Theme Days during the school year. A Sci-
ence focused Theme Day takes place in the Fall.   
The science theme  
this year was
 
Human Body: The Inside Story.
  
Students started the morn-
ing with an assembly featuring 

Then students spent the day 
experiencing the Human Body with extension activities that in-
volved fabulous simulations of the heart, lungs, adaptions, 
healthy eating, teeth, medical careers, etc which all offered prob-
lem solving, awe and wonder. 

The second, a history focused 
Theme Day, occurs in the Spring.  This year students were 
actively engaged in  culturally and historically rich learning 
experiences covering Ancient Civilizations, Greece and Ro-
man History.   Students started their day with a student pro-
duced musical, 
Dig It
,  then they traveled to classrooms, the 
playground or the adjoining green 
belt to participate in various theme based activities, games, arts, foods, 
crafts and general enrichment.  
 
The Arts
 

ing students Visual and      
Performing Arts education. 
Students in Kindergarten 
through third grade receive 
daily music classes. RSA is 
the  only elementary school in 
Shasta County to provide this daily instruction. Kinder-
garten students also benefit from weekly art instruction. 

st
 
through 3
rd
 
graders to 
Visual Art, Dance and Tumbling twice weekly,  changing 
focus with each month. In grades 4
th
 
through 8
th
 
students 
benefit from alternating daily music/art instruction. 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
9
 

-

ment system and a piano lab, RSA students learn the basics of mu-
sic theory, cultural dance, folklore, storytelling, and develop per-

strands and standards using a wide variety of media and tech-
niques, making connections with the historical and cultural con-
text of yearly themes. Students in grades 4
th
 
through 8
th
 
also par-

to select one or two art rich classes for additional concentration. 
Elective classes in tumbling, basic dance, physical education, visu-
al art, choir, drama, guitar, violin and orchestra are available.  
These opportunities are 45
-
50 minutes four times weekly. 
 
Special Education
 
RSA utilizes professionals with specific credentials to provide the 
following services as needed: speech and language therapy, psy-
chological services, occupational therapy, adaptive PE, nursing, 
and access to a special physical therapy day class. In addition, 
paraprofessionals are utilized to work with students who are strug-
gling to meet particular concepts. 
 
RSA has been nationally recognized for its innovative approach to 
special education.  

Education JPA received an Apple Award from Charter School Develop-
ment Center for her 20+ years of contributions to the Charter School 
movement and specially the support of Special Education in Charter 
Schools.  
The educational model focuses on identifying students 
with exceptional needs as early as possible and meeting their edu-

very  design promotes seamless and inconspicuous direct services to children. 
 
 
RSA helped create a Special Education Joint Powers Authority (JPA) with other charter schools in 
the area in order to share these services. The JPA is the first of its kind for charter schools in Califor-
nia and in the nation to provide direct services to 
children. For its efforts, the school received a Cali-
fornia Dissemination grant to share the knowledge 
of providing services to children in a positive direct 

cial education staff participate in professional devel-
opment opportunities offered by the El Dorado 
SELPA 
 
Parental Involvement
 
Parents can become involved in school activities and 
contribute to the decision making of the school  in a 
variety of ways. RSA believes a major factor in the success of students is the involvement that a sig-
nificant adult has in their school life.  All families are encouraged to serve  40 hours of volunteer time 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
10
 
per school year.  The parent volunteer time is an op-
portunity to provide enriched experiences for our stu-
dents.  Volunteer activities included: classroom vol-
unteering, organizing and prepping classroom work at 
home, being an art docent in the classroom, theme 
day organizing and participation, Science Day, main-
taining the library, running snack cart, coordinating 
fund raisers, coordinating extra
-
curricular clubs and 
many more.  Parent volunteer opportunities are 

newsletter posted on the webpage and sent out via e
-
mail and phone messaging. In addition, teachers 
reach out to parents via their  teacher webpage or through e
-
mail regarding volunteer opportunities at 
the school or in their classrooms.
 
 
Parent involvement opportunities are also made available through parent run committees which in-
terface directly with RSA teachers and staff.  The Founda-
tion for Promoting Arts Education, (FPAE) a 501c(3) [as 
of 2016 FPAE is DBA Performing Arts Now (PAN)] is 
one such group, which raises money to enhance the visual 
and performing arts and overall education for RSA along 

ject. For more information about this parent group see this 
link:  
www.promotingartsnow.org
   
 
Our Parent Teacher Council (PTC) works to promote 
community within the school through events such as the 
Back to School Picnic, First Day of School Social, Cam-
pout Dessert Social, Funding of Character Counts 
Awards, Kindergarten Round Up, End of the Year Celebration at Waterworks Park, and Teacher Ap-
preciation Week.  In addition, PTC raised over $50,000 for the 2018
-
2019 year through various fundrais-
ers like Annual Fall Dinner Auction and Spring Jog
-
a
-
thon/Fox Trot. PTC has established officers, committee 
bylaws and conduct monthly meetings.  You can reach this 
group at: 
http://www.rsarts.org/parent_pages/p_t_c_
-
_parent_teacher_club
 
.
 
 
Another significant parent group is Theater Booster Club 
(TBC). TBC  supported our annual spring musical. Par-
ents and community members work with RSA staff to sew 
or secure costumes, help construct set pieces, work along-
side students to run the back stage activities during perfor-
mances, promote the musical in the community, work tick-
et sales, concession sales, and more. TBC has established 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
11
 
officers and committees that conduct monthly meetings. You can reach this  group at: 
http://www.rsarts.org/parent_pages/t_b_c_
-
_theater_booster_club
 
Lastly, parents also assist on curriculum and committees such as School Site Safety committee, Adop-
tions of new curriculum, LCAP review and implementa-
tion, Governing Board and Finance Committee.  RSA en-
courages and appreciates the input from our parents. 
 
Library
 


-
a
-
rounds, and spe-
cialized curriculum. Each week we have over 900 students 
coming into the library.  It is a very busy and productive 
place. In addition to student books, the library has a teach-
er reference section that supports our theme
-
based teach-
ing model.   Finally, the library's Chinese and Chinese
-
English bilingual section of books and resources continues to grow. The Library and parent volunteers 
organize and implemented two very successful  Scholastic Book Fairs.  In 2018
-
2019 our book sales 
reached over $13,000.  Dollars earned from the sales are used to buy new rugs, books, and supplies.  
Our Library also partners with the Shasta County Library to provide all students a library card.
 
This section includes the school, LEA, county, and state information on the percent of students meet-
ing or exceeding the State standards on the California Assessment of Student Performance and Pro-
gress (CAASPP), Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments, and California Alternate Assessments 
(CAAs)
 
for English language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics for grades three through eight. 
For more CA testing results: click here:   
https://caaspp
-
elpac.cde.ca.gov/caaspp/
.  
 
Pupil Outcomes: CAASPP Test Results in ELA, Mathematics and PFT
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
12
 
Partcipation Rates for CAASPP Testing:
 
California is required under the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) to test at least 95 percent of all stu-
dents and student groups in English language arts (ELA) and mathematics. In the event a local education-
al agency (LEA), school, or student group does not meet the 95 percent participation rate target, states are 
required to apply a penalty to the calculation of the Academic Indicator. RSA is proud to say that all grade 
level student groups and all significant student sub
-
groups had participation rates above 95%.
 
California  Science Test (CAST)
 
The California Science Test (CAST ) which was administered operationally during the 2018

19 school 
year. However, these data are not available for inclusion in the 2018

19 SARC posting due February 1, 2020. 
These data will be included in the 2019

20 SARC posting due February 1, 2021.
 
Physical Fitness Test Results:  
 
Physical education at RSA is a way to help the students develop lifelong habits and a healthy lifestyle.   
Fifth and seventh grade students participate in the Physical Fitness Test.  The physical fitness test (PFT) 
for students in California schools is known as the FITNESSGRAM®. The FITNESSGRAM is designed 
to assess six key fitness areas that represent three broad components of fitness: (1) aerobic capacity, (2) 
body composition, and (3) muscle strength, endurance, and flexibility. The third component is further   
 
Pupil Outcomes: CAASPP Test Results in ELA, Mathematics and PFT

 
Cont
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
13
 
Grade Level
 
Cumulative Percent of 
Students Meeting Four of 
Six
 
Fitness Standards
 
Cumulative Percent of 
Students Meeting Five of 
Six
 
Fitness Standards
 
Cumulative Percent of 
Students Meeting Six of 
Six
 
Fitness Standards
 
5
 
87.9%
 
67.2%
 
37.9%
 
7
 
84.6%
 
57.7%
 
38.5%
 
The Learning Conditions
 
Instructional Materials: and Resources: 
 
RSA uses a variety of instructional materials and resources to meet the academic needs of our stu-
dents.  In Mathematics we use Envision Math (K
-
5th) 
-
 
adopted in 2012 and College Preparatory Math 
(CPM) 
-
 
adopted in 2014 for Middle School.  For Language Arts, RSA used the newly adopted curricu-
lum of Wonders (K
-

-
5th).  In (6th
-
8th) we use 
novels, Scholastic 
magazine, Newsela,
 
Smithsonian and National Geographic if articles apply to our theme
.  In History we 
use Houghton
-
Mifflin History
-
Social Science and Glencoe Discovering Our Past. In Science we use 
Full Option Science System, and Prentice Hall California Science Explorer and a variety of NGSS 
aligned curriculum where available.  We will be adopting new materials in 2019
-
20.  In addition,  In-
teracts/Simulations/Experiments are used across the curriculum.  One hundred percent of students 
have access to the most recently adopted textbook and supplemental materials.
 
divided into four areas: abdominal strength and endurance, trunk extensor strength and flexibility, up-
per body strength and endurance, and flexibility.  The main goal of the test is to help students in start-
ing life
-
long habits of regular physical activity. 
 
FITNESSGRAM uses health
-
related standards to evaluate performance. The desired performance 
standard for each fitness
-
area test is the Healthy Fitness Zone (HFZ). This standard represents the lev-
el of fitness associated with good health.
 
 
Students should strive to achieve a score within the HFZ for 
each fitness
-
area test. The FITNESSGRAM performance standards are updated on a regular basis.
 
 
For 
more detailed information please see the Healthy Fitness Zone Charts Web page at 
http://www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/healthfitzones.asp
.
 
 
Pupil Outcomes: CAASPP Test Results in ELA, Mathematics and PFT

 
Cont
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
14
 
Average Class Sizes 
 
RSA successfully utilizes multi
-
grade classes in order to meet the needs of students.  In those classes RSA  
maintained class size averages of 26:1 in grades K
-
3; Grades four through eight averaged 30:1.  For students 
in (K 

 
5th) classroom based programs, direct instruction during language arts was further reduced by half 
with half the students attending a music class and half the students receiving ELA instruction, allowing 
for a rate of 10 

 
15: 1.  In addition, math classes were grouped by math skill rather than grade level or home 
room divisions. Homeroom placements are based on student reading abilities with a usual grade span of 
two grades.
 
Instructional Minutes
 
The instructional minutes for the students attending RSA exceed the requirements of the state in all 
grades.  This allows for an extensive academic instruction and enrichment of the visual and performing 
arts for all students.
 
Professional Development Days and Minimum Days during the School Year
 
To facilitate staff development, safety trainings and department coordination, RSA implemented thirty
-
five minimum days in which one week was dedicated to parent teacher conferences.  The school also  pro-
vided 3 full days of staff in
-
service trainings.  The main areas of focus for professional development times 
included, Professional Learning Community work, legal & safety updates/trainings and time for staff col-
laboration on schoolwide theme days and curriculum implementation.  Goals of professional development 

 
In addition to the designated professional development days provided by the school, individual teach-
ers/teacher teams attended workshops, conferences, trainings on current best practices in their areas of  
expertise and then provided feedback at staff meetings or provided individual coaching for other staff 
members.
 
Teacher Credentials, Mis
-
assignments or Vacancies
 
RSA had 98.2% of our Core Academic Classes taught by Fully Credentialed and Highly Qualified Teach-
ers for the (2018
-
2019) school year.  There was 1.8% teachers mis
-
assigned or teaching outside their creden-
tial qualifications.  There were no vacant teaching positions during the 2018
-
2019 school year.
 
The Learning Conditions Cont.
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
15
 
In addition, the school maintains teachers who meet the following standards:
 


Minimum of two years classroom teaching experience.
 



 


100% meet Cross
-
cultural, Language and Academic Development (CLAD) or (Bilingual)          
 
      
Cross
-
cultural, Language and Academic Development (BCLAD) standards.
 


Elective teachers are community professionals actively working in the areas they teach.
 


Teachers are all encouraged and supported to maintain a high level of professional development in 
the areas they teach.
 
In 2018
-
2019, there were 27 full and part
-
time teachers and the following support staff:
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

-

 

 
The Learning Conditions Cont.
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

tains an exemplary facility rating.  
 
Cleanliness of the facility is the responsibility of the Facilities department providing daily cleaning of all 

hazardous chemicals are used during the cleaning process. Redding School of the Arts carried out the  
planned safety improvements for  security windows for the 2018 

19 school year.
 


 
 
 
 
School Facilities and Planned Improvements
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 


 

 
 
 
N/A
 


 

 
 
 
N/A
 



 

 
 
 
N/A
 


 

 
 
 
N/A
 


 

 
 
 
N/A
 


 

 
 
 
N/A
 


 

 
 
 
N/A
 



 

 
 
 
N/A
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
17
 
School Safety Plan
 
RSA met regularly with the School Site Safety Team to review site safety concerns. Monthly fire 
drills and the Great Shakeout drill were planned and executed.  RSA introduced the nationally recog-
nized ALICE (Alert, Lockdown, Inform, Counter and Evacuate) Program to staff withplans for full 
implementation in the 2019
-
2020 School year.  A check of facilities and playground occurred monthly 
with concerns being addressed immediately.  
The committee worked very closely with 
administration and our Safe School Plan 
committee to update our REMS 
(Readiness 
& Emergency Management System) 
 
and 
Safe School Plan. The Plan was presented to 
the governing board in February of 2019.  In 
addition, a Safety Committee Team Mem-
ber presented notes from each safety meet-
ing to the board or other pertinent stake-
holder groups.
 
Positive School Cli-
mate and Behavior 
Plan
 
 
Based on the 
WASC review team recommendation in 2012, RSA developed and imple-
mented a uniform positive school climate program at RSA.  The program 
has two main components: A Behavior Management system adapted from 
the No Excuses University philosophy of an explicit management plan 
where staff members, students and parents all share in the responsibility for 
good student behavior on campus; and a character education module that focuses on the six pillars of 
character and a code of  expected conduct for staff, students, and parents based on these  pillars.  All 
staff members were trained in 
the implementation of the 
program and continue to par-
ticipate in the positive school 
climate program for the bet-
terment of student behavior at 
school.  RSA maintains high 
behavioral standards based on 
the six pillars of character:  
trustworthiness, respect, re-
sponsibility, fairness, caring 
and citizenship. Students are 
expected to exhibit behaviors 
reflective of these six tenets 
in all school
-
related facilities 
and activities. Along with the 
School Climate & Engagement
 
 
Redding School of the Arts School Accountability Report Card 2018~ 2019
 
18
 
 
Positive School Climate program, RSA continues to utilize the board  approved disciplinary poli-
cies and practices which emphasize natural consequences for student actions.  The plan includes 
levels of classroom and adminis-
trative consequences dependent 
upon the infraction.  These disci-
plinary practices were included in 
the Family Handbook which is re-
viewed and revised annually.  
 
Suspensions/Expulsions
 
RSA suspension rate for 2018 

2019 
was less than 1 percent.  There 
were no expulsions at the school.
 
School Climate Survey (Students) 
& Annual Parent Survey
 
During the 2018
-
19 school year 
Redding School of the Arts admin-
istered a comprehensive School 
Climate Survey to all 5th thru 8th grade students. Key findings were presented to various stake-
holder groups at General meetings (Parent Teacher Council, Theater Booster Club, Instructional 
Leadership Team meetings, Governing Board Meetings, etc.) as well as reported out in our An-
nual LCAP Update in June. Highlights of the results include: a.) 83.4% of students Feel Safe at 
School.; b.) School Connectedness: 86.5% of Students 
are happy they attend this school & 91.1% of Students 
believe there is at least one teacher or adult at this 
school who really wants them to do well; c.) 98% of 
Students affirmed that they know the school rules 
for student behavior and what is expected of them; 
d.) On nine questions regarding character and values 
related to our character counts program: Overall 93 
percent of students believe these values and character 
trails to be important to 
them. Overall, the 
school climate survey 
reflects that RSA pro-
vides it's student body 
with a safe, positive school environment for learning. One area of 
growth that the Leadership Team is addressing is increasing the per-
centage of students who feel safe at school. Included on the student 
survey was a follow up question for why and where a student may 
not feel safe. We are utilizing these detailed responses to implement 
changes that will improve areas of identified concerns. 
 
School Climate & Engagement Cont.
 
 
 
After School Care
 
RSA offers an after school program 5 days a week. The program is available 1:15
-
6:00pm. There is a 
fee for the after school program in which parents prepay for after school daycare for their children.  
A free daily snack is provided for all the after school students. The program is staffed according to 
the demand and number of families utilizing the program which can change throughout the school 
year.  The program provides help with homework and academic needs in small group settings. Al-
so, various  activities are provided such as:  art, crafts, games, sports, and outside play. Another 
incentive and convenience for parents with students in after school care is the staff accompany 
students to their on
-
campus extracurricular activities that their parents have paid for such as 
strings, dance, guitar lessons, singing lessons and more. 
 
In addition, RSA offers a sibling wait program that is set up for families that have more than one 
child who attends RSA and dismiss at different times.  RSA has three dismissal times and it is of-
fered to parents as a convenience program that is free. The time this program is offered is 2:15
-
3:00. 
There are approximately 100 students who benefit from this program.
 
School Climate & Engagement Cont.
 
