Piru Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGE
I invite you to explore Piru Elementary School™s Annual School Accountability Report Card which 
provides valuable information about our instructional programs, academic achievement, 
classroom materials, school safety, facilities, and sta˜.   Understanding our educational program, 

student achievement, and our curriculum development can assist both our school and the 

community in ongoing program improvement.
Piru Elementary School is focused on providing all students with the opportunity to achieve. We 
accommodate individual learning styles while maintaining high, obtainable, expectations for 

students. We o˜er one-to-one iPads for all students.  Technology is a pivotal part of all we do on 

our campus to ensure we have con˚dent students in technology that are able to function via 21st 

century skills.  Piru Elementary School is quite proud of its academic programs, and extensive 
extracurricular activities that actively engage all students and provide a well-rounded educational 
experience.
Sta˜ and parents work together to create a learning environment that promotes academic and 
social development, teaches responsibility and pride, and models learning as a lifelong adventure. 
We are excited about our school and welcome all to join in our e˜orts to create successful, 
responsible citizens.
Maria Baro,
Principal, Piru Elementary School
DISTRICT
 & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONFillmore Uni˚ed School District
Fillmore Uni˚ed School District is located in the city of Fillmore which was founded over one 
hundred years ago and is currently home to approximately 14,000 residents.  It is set in the middle 

of citrus and avocado groves of inland Ventura County and was founded in 1888 and incorporated 
in 1914. The district is comprised of four elementary schools, one
 middle school, one independent 
study school,  one comprehensive high school, and one alternative high school. In 2018-19, 

Fillmore Uni˚ed School District  had a total enrollment of 3,785 students including 14.3% in special 

education, 25.2% English Learners, 0.3% identi˚ed as foster youth, 4% identi˚ed as homeless, 

and 77.2% economically disadvantaged.
District Vision Statement
Fillmore Uni˚ed School District provides a culture of high expectations where every student 
achieves future success.
District Mission Statement
Every day we develop high performing students who become engaged and productive members 
of society.
Piru Elementary School
Piru Elementary School serves students in grades Kindergarten through ˚fth grade following a 
traditional calendar. At the beginning of the 2018-19 school year, 284 students were enrolled, 

including 6.7% in special education, 51.4% qualifying for English Language Learner support, 
78.2% qualifying for free or reduced price lunch, 4.2% homeless, and 0.4% foster youth. 
Piru Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
LOCAL
 CONTROL
 ACCOUNTABILITY
 PLAN (LCA
P)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-
year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP). The following components of this 
SARC address some of the priorities identi˚ed 
in the District™s LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ State 
Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers are 
appropriately assigned and fully credentialed 
in the subject areas and for the pupils they are 
teaching; pupils have access to standards-
aligned Instructional materials and school 
facilities are maintained in good repair.  
Covered in Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments chart; 
Instructional Materials, including the 
Textbooks chart; and School Facilities & 
Maintenance, including the Campus 
Description and School Facility Good Repair 
Status charts.
Conditions of Learning (Implementation of 
State Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  
Implementation of academic content and 
performance standards adopted by the state 
board for all pupils.  Not covered in the School 
Accountability Report Card.
Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  E˜orts 
to seek parent input in decision making, 
promotion of parent participation in 
programs for unduplicated pupils and special 
need subgroups.  Covered in Parent 
Involvement.
Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score on 
Academic Performance Index, share of pupils 
that are college and career ready, share of 
English learners that become English 
pro˚cient, English learner reclassi˚cation rate, 
share of pupils that pass Advanced Placement 
exams with a 3 or higher, and share of pupils 
determined prepared for college by the Early 
Assessment Program.  Covered in California 
Assessment of Student Performance and 
Progress, including the CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State 
Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic 
absenteeism rates, middle school dropout 
rates, high school dropout rates, and high 
school graduation rates.   Covered in Dropout 
Rates, including the Dropout chart; and 
Graduation Rates, including the Graduation 
Rate chart for high schools only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil 
suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, other 
local measures including surveys of pupils, and 
parents and teachers on the sense of safety 
and school connectedness.  Covered in 
Discipline & Climate for Learning, including 
Suspension & Expulsion chart; and School Site 
Safety Plan.
Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ State 
Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a broad course 
of study that includes all of the subject areas.   
Not covered in the School Accountability 
Report Card.
Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  Pupil 
outcomes in the subject areas.  Covered in 
Physical Fitness, including the Physical Fitness 
Test chart.
PARENT INVOLVE
MENTParents are encouraged to get involved in their 
child™s learning environment by assisting at 
school events, participating in a decision-
making group, or attending school events. 
Parents stay informed on upcoming events and 
school activities through Q Parent Connection, 
the school website, the school marquee, social 
media (Facebook & Twitter), ˛yers, and 
ConnectEd automated phone/text/email 
messages. Contact the school secretary for 
more information on how to become involved 
in your child™s learning environment.
Opportunities to Volunteer
Ł Classroom Helper
Ł Field Trips
Ł Fundraising Activities
Ł Help with School Events
Committees
Ł School Site Council
Ł English Learner Advisory Council
Ł Parent Advisory Committee
School Activities
Ł Back to School Night
Ł Open House
Ł Parent Conferences
Ł Parent Training Nights
Ł Student Performances
Ł Title I Meetings
STUDENT ACHIEVE
MENTPhysical Fitness
In the spring of each year, Piru Elementary 
School is required by the state to administer 
a physical ˚tness test to all students in ˚fth 
grade. The physical ˚tness test measures 
each student™s ability to complete six ˚tness 
tasks in six major areas. Students that either 
meet or exceed the standards in all ˚ve of the 
six ˚tness areas are considered to be 
physically ˚t or in the ﬁhealthy ˚tness zone.ﬂ 
Comparative District and state results can be 
found at the CDE™s web site www.cde.ca.gov/
ta/tg/pf/.
California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress 
(CAASPP)
The California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments (SBAC) for students in the 
general education population, and the 
California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for 
students with the most signi˚cant cognitive 
disabilities.  Only eligible students may 
participate in the administration of the CAAs.  
CAAs items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards 
(CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how 
well students are mastering California™s 
standards in English language arts/literacy 
(ELA) and mathematics, and are given to 
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛


˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ†“
˘‘
˘š


˘€
•

˘
€“˘†
‡ˇˇ
…˚˙

–ˇƒ˙ˇ⁄
˜‹ˇ
›

—ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ–˚—ˇ
−˙

‡

•˚ˇ„—

ˇ˙ˆ˚
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
ˇ˘
”ˇ
‚˙

‡ˇ™ˇ
”

Piru Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


˝˘ˆ˝˘
€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€˝˘ˆ˘š˝˘ˆ˚•š˘ˆ˝˛š‡
€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€…šˆˆ–˝˛š˘˚


ƒ⁄š˛
€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€˝˙˙‹ˆ›˝˘˛



ˇ˘−˙š⁄ˆ


˛ˆ‰š˛⁄ˆ›š˙š˛š


˛ˆ„‡š˘−ˆš˝˘˛ˆˇ˝˛š˚˘ˆ‡š



˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˜˚˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘˘
ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛

˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
“ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ˙‘˛’š€
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝
ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙˚˝†˙“˛‘‘˝‘
˙˚˙“˛‘‘˝‘
˙š˚‘˝‘˙€‘˙ˇ‘
‘‘
“˚˝˘˛
“˚˝˙‡˛’
‡˘’˝˛˝
˘‘˝˘…˚˙—˘˚‘
–ƒ˚˝˙⁄‹˙š›
˙ƒ˙š
˝˛†˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/
Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs 
test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the 
Common Core State Standards (CCSS). 
The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district 
and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are 
shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories 
that are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP 
can be found on the California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
SCHOOL FACILITIES
 & MAINTENANCEThe district takes great e˜orts to ensure that all schools are clean, safe, and functional through 
proper facilities maintenance and campus supervision. Piru Elementary School™s original facilities 
were built in 1954; ongoing maintenance and campus improvements ensure facilities remain up 
to date and provide adequate space for students and sta˜.
2018-19 Campus Improvements:
Ł Repairs to upper grade restrooms
Ł Installation of overhead screens
Ł Repaint and install new carpeting in some  classsrooms
Ł Repairs to ramps to upper grade classrooms
Ł Repaint cafteria and replace fans
Facilities Maintenance
District maintenance and site custodial sta˜ 
ensure that the repairs necessary to keep the 
school in good condition are completed in a 
timely manner. A work order process is used 
by school and district sta˜ to communicate 
non-routine maintenance requests. 
Emergency repairs are given the highest 
priority. 
Every morning before school begins, the lead 
day custodian inspects facilities for safety 
hazards or other conditions that need 
attention prior to students and sta˜ entering 
school grounds. A team of three (two full-
time and one part-time) custodians are 
assigned to Piru Elementary School and are 
responsible for cleaning of the following:
Ł Restrooms
Ł Cafeteria Setup/Cleanup
Ł General Cleaning & Custodial Functions
Ł Classrooms
Ł O˝ce Areas
Ł Library
Ł Cafeteria
Piru Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Restrooms are checked throughout the day 
for cleanliness and subsequently cleaned as 
needed. The principal communicates with the 
lead day custodian daily concerning 
maintenance and school safety issues.
Campus Supervision
School administration and teaching sta˜ 
place a high priority on providing adequate 
adult supervision on campus before, during, 
and after school. As students arrive on 
campus each morning, during lunch time, 
and at end of day dismissal, yard duty 
supervisors monitor activity throughout the 
campus, entrance areas, and designated 
common areas.  
Piru Elementary School is a closed campus. 
During school hours, all visitors must sign in 
at the school™s o˝ce and wear identi˚cation 
badges while on school grounds.
School Site Safety Plan
The Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for Piru Elementary School in 
collaboration with local agencies and the 
district o˝ce to ful˚ll Senate Bill 187 
requirements. Components of this plan 
include child abuse reporting procedures, 
teacher noti˚cation of dangerous pupil 
procedures, disaster response procedures, 
procedures for safe arrival and departure 
from school, sexual harassment policy, dress 
code policy, and bully prevention policy. The 
school™s most recent school safety plan was 
reviewed, updated, and shared with school 
sta˜ in November 2019. 
Campus culture promotes a secure learning 
environment. All persons are to be treated 
with dignity and respect. The district, schools, 
students, parents/guardians and community 
have an obligation to promote mutual 
respect and safe, harmonious relations that 
support dignity and equality. Bullying and 
harassment are not tolerated. The school 
district has policies, procedures, and practices 
in place that are designed to reduce and 
eliminate bullying and harassment as well as 
processes and procedures to address 
incidents of bullying and harassment when 
they occur. Students and their parents receive 
information annually regarding district 
policies concerning anti-bullying and 
harassment.
Facilities Inspections
The district™s maintenance department 
inspects Piru Elementary School on an annual 
basis in accordance with Education Code 
§17592.72(c)(1).  Piru Elementary School uses 
a school site inspection survey to identify 
unsafe or hazardous conditions and facility 
improvement needs.  The most recent school 
inspection took place on August 6, 2019. 
During ˚scal year 2018-19, all restrooms were 
fully functional and available for student use.



CLASSROO
M ENVIRON
MENTDiscipline & Climate for Learning
Piru Elementary School™s discipline policies are 
based upon Positive Behavior Intervention and 
Supports (PBIS), a multi-tiered approach to 
social, emotional and behavior support. This 
schoolwide positive behavior management 
plan is used as a guide to develop school rules, 
develop behavior management programs, 
promote responsibility, promote respect, and 
minimize classroom disruptions. Teachers 
clearly identify and explain behavior 
expectations to their students and discuss 
consequences for poor or disruptive behavior 
in the classroom. Administrators lead 
assemblies and visit classrooms to reinforce the 
importance of following school rules and 
making responsible, respectful behavior 
choices. 
Class Size
The Average Class Size and Class Size  
Distribution table in this report illustrates the 
distribution of class sizes by subject area, the 
average class size, and the number of classes 
that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 students, and 
33 or more students. Calculations exclude 
classrooms of 50 or more students.







˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ






˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛
Piru Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
opportunity to work with groups of students 
on a particular need. In this model, the 
classroom teacher works with struggling 
students in English Language Arts. Math 
tutors provide additional support in 
Mathematics for students to gain a deeper 
mathematical understanding by using 
probing questions in developing multiple. 
After school, Leveled Literacy Intervention is 
provided to selected students. As an 
additional layer of support for our most at-risk 
students the next level of support is delivered 
in the area of speech and academics as a 
precursor to seeking special education 
services. Finally, when individual needs are 
not met via the aforementioned, we provide 
special education services to qualifying 
students that meet Special Education 
eligibility. 
Our focus over the last two years has been on 
restructuring our math instructional program 
to deliver lessons that address the nine 
mathematical practices. The goal is to ensure 
our lessons cover all mathematical standards, 
embed high leverage strategies and ensure 
students are explaining their thought process 
both verbally and in writing during daily 
mathematics lessons. Many grade levels have 
begun to implement Engage New York and 
Fosnot Units to supplement our MyMath 
program. Our math tutors also come in during 
mathematics to work on questioning skills to 
support students in how to attack word 
problems.  This mathematical focus allowed 
us to see a growth in our California 
Assessment of Student Progress in the area of 
mathematics as part of our 2017-2018 results. 
During the 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19 
school years, Piru Elementary School™s 
teaching sta˜ participated in districtwide 
professional development training focused 
on:
CURRICULU
M & INSTRUCTION
Sta˜ Development
All curriculum and instructional improvement activities at Fillmore Uni˚ed School District are 
aligned to the California State Standards. Sta˜ development concentrations are selected and 
identi˚ed based on district professional development focus and California State Standards 
implementation. Findings from formative assessment results and state assessments indicate 
that reading, writing, and math are the primary focus areas. During the 2017-18, 2018-19, and 
2019-20 school years, Piru Elementary School™s teaching sta˜ participated in professional 
development training at the site level focused on: 
Ł Positive Behavior Interventions and Support (PBIS) 
Ł 8 days of Apple Professional Development to support the integration of technology into our 
  curriculum 
Ł Supplementing MyMath with 21st century skills 
Ł Professional Learning Communities (PLCs) to address the following:
   1.  Ongoing learning teams focused on improving instructional practice and achievement of 
         all students with an emphasis on English learners
   2.  Creating and using common assessments
  3.  Implementing and monitoring a Multi-Tiered System of Support (MTSS) structure for all 
          students
   4.  Establish vertical and horizontal articulation (i.e. between grade levels, subject areas and/
          or schools)
   5.  Additional goals expressed in the SPSA and/or LCAP
Ł myOn Training 
Ł Swun Math monthly coaching/training 
Ł Sobrato Early Academic Language (SEAL) Program 
One of the greatest milestones of Piru Elementary School was being awarded the Apple 
Connect Ed Grant in 2015. We have since had both our teacher and student roll out events as 
witnessed by various stakeholders, board members, dignitaries, district o˝ce, Apple 
representatives, Apple retail consultants and community members. In these events, devices 
were deployed and utilized for the ˚rst time. Our teachers and sta˜ had their roll out in June 
2016 where they received their devices as part of the initial Apple professional development 
day. In September of 2016 students received iPads. Student devices were distributed as part 
of a celebratory tribute to Apple for their generosity. This event marked the beginning of our 
journey to utilize technology to further enhance our existing initiatives while creating 
interactive learning environments true to our mission. Currently our classrooms are out˚tted 
with a projector, Apple TV, Mac Pro and Mini iPad as well as an iPad cart with su˝cient one-
to-one iPads for each student. Under the Grant, our school is wireless. The Grant also provided 
17 days of professional development for our instructional team. We created a professional 
development plan that utilized the Apple Specialist to work alongside instructional sta˜ to 
enhance 21st century skills for students while preparing students for college and career 
readiness. Our students have been attending ˚eld trips to our local Apple Store to further 
develop a passion for technology and learn about coding. Along with the Grant, we are eligible 
for full support from the Apple Team in the way of consultation services and technical support. 
The Grant has also provided access to selected paid apps; Sphero™s to support coding and 
vouchers to purchase additional apps for students. It is easy to see how this Grant brings a 
myriad of opportunities for Piru students, parents and community as we work together to dive 
into the 21st Century and compete on a global level. As intended, it levels the playing ˚eld for 
our students and gives them a much needed advantage that we don™t take lightly. Our sta˜, 
students, parents and community understand the opportunity we have been gifted and work 
hard to use it to develop students that are technologically con˚dent and able to use the tool 
to solve problems at a much deeper level required of all future 21st century world markets. We 
have provided workshops to parents to create awareness for the ways we are using technology 
in our school.
We were also the recipients of the AT&T grant that provides wireless coverage for our devices 
outside of the school area. This opens up limitless opportunities for students to use devices at 
home to support academic achievement. Much work needs to be done to prepare students 
and parents prior to implementation of this exciting grant. We have also completed our 
certi˚cation to qualify as a Common Sense Media School. 
We are fully committed to implementing a strong Response to Intervention program to ensure 
that all students receive instruction tailored to their speci˚c academic and behavioral needs. 
Following good ˚rst instruction, we provide a layer of additional support in English Language 
Arts utilizing an enrichment teacher during Daily 5, a structure that provides the teacher an 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆˇ˘
˙˙

ˆˇ
†“““
‘ˇ˙†’

“ˆ
•

…—˙–
˙

•†•
ƒ’˘˙˙ƒ˙
ˇ“
ƒ⁄ƒ⁄‘“
˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˇˇˇ˙˙˘ˇ
ˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
Piru Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˚˜˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘†“
˜˚˚‘˘’˙
˜˚˚‘
š˙€†˙˙’
’
•˙
˙˙

ˇ
š˙
š˝’š
—ƒ⁄
ˇ⁄…˝˝ƒ
‰

‡–€
ˆ˙
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
ˆˇ
“
Instructional Materials
All textbooks used in the core curriculum are 
aligned to the California State Standards. 
Instructional materials are selected from the 
state™s most recent list of standards-based 
materials and adopted by the State Board of 
Education. The district follows the State Board 
of Education™s adoption cycle for core content 
materials (English/Language Arts, math, 
science, and social science). 
On September 3, 2019, the Fillmore Uni˚ed 
School District Board of Education held a 
public hearing to certify the  extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have 
been provided to students. The Board of 
Education adopted Resolution #19-20-04 
which certi˚es as required by Education Code 
§60119 (1) that textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to all students, 
including English Learners, in the district to 
the extent that each pupil, including English 
Learners, has a standards-aligned textbook 
and/or instructional materials to use in class 
and to take home, which may include 
materials in a digital format but shall not 
include photocopied sheets from only a 
portion of a textbook or instructional 
materials copied to address a shortage, (2) 
that all students who are enrolled in the same 
course within the district have standards-
aligned textbooks or instructional materials 
from the same adoption cycle, (3) su˝cient 
textbooks and instructional materials were 
provided to each student, including English 
Learners, that are aligned to the academic 
content standards and consistent with the 
cycles and content of the curriculum 
frameworks in math, science, history-social 
science, and English/Language Arts, including 
the English Language Development 
component of an adopted program, 4) 
su˝cient textbooks or instructional materials 
were provided to each pupil enrolled in 
foreign language or health classes, and 5) 
su˝cient laboratory science equipment was 
available for science laboratory classes 
o˜ered in grades 9-12, inclusive.
In addition to core subject areas, districts are 
required to disclose in their SARCs the 
su˝ciency of instructional materials used for 
their visual/performing arts curricula. During 
the 2019-20 school year, Fillmore Uni˚ed 
School District provided each student, 
including English Learners, enrolled in a 
visual/performing arts class with a textbook 
or instructional materials to use in class and 
to take home. These materials complied with 
the state™s content standards and curriculum 
framework.
Piru Elementary moves forward in implementing district initiatives such as Sobrato Early 
Academic Literacy. We are privileged to be a Sobrato Early Academic Literacy district in grades 
PK-5th grade. SEAL or Sobrato Early Academic Literacy o˜ers a highly supportive environment 
and a structure for students to use rich academic language as they address NGSS, Common 
Core State Standards and Social Studies standards. Teachers work tirelessly alongside SEAL 
Coach Facilitators to develop units that embed high leverage strategies and pedagogical 
practices to increase academic oral language for students. Our teachers receive intensive 
training to be able to implement the program with ˚delity. As a result, we have seen an increase 
in student achievement. This program also includes a rich parent component to ensure student 
success. This includes parent workshops to introduce strategies that can be used at home. A 
vital parent opportunity in SEAL consists of gallery walks where parents visit their child™s 
classroom to learn and support the child™s learning at the completion of each instructional 
unit. In order to assist teachers in the e˝cacy to the SEAL model and its strategies, our literacy 
has started to work with grade levels to conduct lesson studies to maximize their 
implementation of skills.
To monitor student progress various assessments are utilized. Teachers are using Fountas and 
Pinnell Benchmark Assessment System to assess students reading abilities. This data serves to 
identify students that need intensive intervention during our Daily 5 sessions as well as 
pinpoint recipients of Leveled Literacy Intervention (LLI) outside of the instructional day. As 
mentioned above, a credentialed teacher supports the classroom teacher daily enabling the 
classroom teacher to deliver LLI to at risk students. District benchmarks are being utilized in 
mathematics to be able to document growth students are making.  Students in grades 3-5 
take IAB assessments in ELA and math to provide a learning opportunity for students in 
preparation for our California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress.
Supplemental sta˜ development is o˜ered as part of our FUSD collaboration model.  Students 
have late start every Wednesday allowing teachers to collaborate for 90 minutes.  Our FUSD 
Collaboration model is structured to provide professional development and collaboration 
time with grade level teams.  These are alternated on a weekly basis, grade level teams meet 
every other week and is alternated by professional development.  Collaboration time has been 
used to analyze data, re˚ne current practices, plan instruction as well as receive additional 
training in the area of SEAL, PBIS, Mathematics and 21st Century learning.  To support this 
endeavor, District sta˜ work with school site administrators and teaching sta˜ to provide 
support and training to ensure the successful implementation of the California Standards. 
Fillmore Uni˚ed School District and the Ventura County Superintendent of Schools jointly 
support new and veteran teachers in developing their teaching skills through the New Teacher 
Induction program. The Teacher Induction program is a state-approved program that o˜ers 
˚rst and second year teachers comprehensive support and training for new teachers with a 
preliminary credential; after successful completion of the two-year induction training, teachers 
may apply for their clear teaching credential. Sta˜ members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher 
leaders, administrators, and support sta˜ are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the Ventura County Superintendent of School as well as the Fillmore Uni˚ed 
School District. Profession and subject speci˚c o˜ers are consistent with the California State 
Standards. Classi˚ed support sta˜ may receive job-related training through faculty meetings 
supported by district input and independent e˜orts; training activities and workshops are 
designed to enhance and support all site and district initiatives.
Piru Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PRO
FESSIONAL STA
FFTeacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, Piru Elementary School had 14 teachers who met all credential 
requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identi˚es the number of 
teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total 
teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to 
the number of positions ˚lled by teachers who lack legal authorization to teacher that grade 
level, subject area, student group, etc. 
Counseling & Support Sta˜
Piru Elementary School provides professional, 
highly quali˚ed sta˜ that provide additional 
services and support centered on the whole 
student academically, physically, and 
mentally. The Counseling and Support 
Services table in this report illustrates the 
availability of non-instructional support sta˜ 
to Piru Elementary School™s students. 
Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an employee™s 
regular work load on a weekly basis. For 
example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and 
available all day every day of the week; an FTE 
of 0.5 indicates that the sta˜ member is 
available and on campus a portion (50%) of 
the week.
SARC
 DATA
 & INTERNET
 ACCESS
DataQuest
DataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about Piru Elementary 
School and comparisons of the school to the 
district, the county, and the state.  DataQuest 
provides reports for school accountability, 
including but not limited to, CAASPP results, 
Physical Fitness results, Suspensions and 
Expulsions, Dropout & Graduation Rates, 
enrollment, and sta˝ng statistics.
Public Internet Access Location
Parents may access Piru Elementary School™s 
SARC and access the internet at any of the 
county™s public libraries. The closest public 
library to Piru Elementary School is the 
Fillmore Library, a branch of Ventura County 
Library.
Address: 502 2nd Street, Fillmore, CA
Phone Number: (805) 524-3355
Web Site: www.vencolibrary.org
Number of Computers Available: 6
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˜˚˙˜˚˚˘
˜˚˝˜˚˚˘
ˇˇˇ˜ˇˇ˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘—
ˇˇˇˇ˜˜
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
ƒ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

ˇ

ˆ‘
ˆˇ
’
šˆˇˇ˝€
ˇ



˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ

Piru Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
DISTRICT
 EXPENDITURESSalary & Budget Comparison
State law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the 
general public. For comparison purposes, the 
State Department of Education has provided 
average salary data from school districts 
having similar average daily attendance 
throughout the state. (Note: 2017-18 salary 
comparison data was the most recent data 
available at the time this report was 
published.)
Expenditures Per Student
For the 2017-18 school year, Fillmore Uni˚ed  
School District spent an average of $12,146 of 
total general funds to educate each student 
(based on 2017-18 audited ˚nancial 
statements and in accordance with 
calculations de˚ned in Education Code 
§41372). The table in this report 1) compares 
the school™s per pupil expenditures from 
unrestricted (basic) and restricted 
(supplemental) sources with other schools in 
the district and throughout the state, and 2) 
compares the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the 
district and state levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found 
at the CDE web site at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The ˚gures 
shown in the following table re˛ect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding 
food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.)


In addition to general fund state funding, Fillmore Uni˚ed School District receives state and 
federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the district 
received categorical, special education, and support programs funds for: 
˜˚˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
•˙˘˘˛
‡˘˛—
–˘˛
†ˇ˘˛

•˛

˛˘˛
‡˘˘˜—
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚
Ł After School Education and Safety (ASES)
Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education
   Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Programs
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional Materials
Ł Medi-Cal Billing Option
Ł Other Local: Locally De˚ned
Ł Special Education
Ł State Lottery
Ł STRS On-Behalf Pension Contributions
Ł Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
Ł Williams Case Settlement
Disclosure
The statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California Department 
of Education and the Fillmore Uni˚ed School District. At the time of publication, this report met 
all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the most current data available. Data to 
prepare the instructional materials section was acquired in November 2019 and the school 
facilities section was acquired in December 2019.
