San Cayetano Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
PRINCIPAL™S MESSAGE
Welcome to San Cayetano School Home of the Eagles! 
It is my belief that every child is capable of reaching academic success and I look 
forward to working with parents/guardians and the community to support student 
learning so that students can achieve at the highest levels.  As a native of Fillmore and 
being Fillmore High Alumni, I take great pride in serving the students and families of 
San Cayetano School.  I believe in the strength and skills of our sta˜ and in the support 
of Fillmore Uni˚ed School District.  I am dedicated to ensuring that each child at San 
Cayetano School feels valued and safe at school and receives a high quality education. 
Student safety, student success–academics as well as the social emotional well being 
of our students, continues to be our priority at San Cayetano School in preparing our 
students to be 21st Century Learners-College and Career Ready. 
Tricia Gradias,
Principal, San Cayetano School
DISTRICT
 & SCHOOL DESCRIPTIONFillmore Uni˚ed School District
Fillmore Uni˚ed School District is located in the city of Fillmore which was founded 
over one hundred years ago and is currently home to approximately 14,000 residents.  
It is set in the middle of citrus and avocado groves of inland Ventura County and was 
founded in 1888 and incorporated in 1914. The district is comprised of four elementary 
schools, one
 middle school, one independent study school,  one comprehensive high 
school, and one alternative high school. In 2018-19, Fillmore Uni˚ed School District  
had a total enrollment of 3,785 students including 14.3% in special education, 25.2% 
English Learners, 0.3% were identi˚ed as foster youth, 4% were identi˚ed as homeless, 
and 77.2% economically disadvantaged.
District Vision Statement
Fillmore Uni˚ed School District provides a culture of high expectations where every 
student achieves future success.
District Mission Statement
Every day we develop high performing students who become engaged and productive 
members of society.
San Cayetano Elementary School
San Cayetano Elementary School serves students in kindergarten through ˚fth grade 
following a traditional calendar. At the beginning of the 2018-19 school year, 464 
students were enrolled, including 17% in special education, 40.9% qualifying for English 
Language Learner support, 76.9% qualifying for free or reduced price lunch, and 6% 
homeless. 
San Cayetano Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
LOCAL
 CONTROL
 ACCOUNTABILITY
 PLAN (LCA
P)As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a 
three-year Local Control and 
Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 
components of this SARC address some 
of the priorities identi˚ed in the District™s 
LCAP:
Conditions of Learning (Basic Services) Œ 
State Priority 1:  Degree to which teachers 
are appropriately assigned and fully 
credentialed in the subject areas and for 
the pupils they are teaching; pupils have 
access to standards-aligned Instructional 
materials and school facilities are 
maintained in good repair.  Covered in 
Teacher Assignment, including the 
Teacher Credentials & Misassignments 
chart; Instructional Materials, including 
the Textbooks chart; and School Facilities 
& Maintenance, including the Campus 
Description and School Facility Good 
Repair Status charts.
Conditions of Learning (Implementation 
of State Standards) Œ State Priority 2:  
Implementation of academic content and 
performance standards adopted by the 
state board for all pupils.  Not covered in 
the School Accountability Report Card.
Parental Involvement Œ State Priority 3:  
E˜orts to seek parent input in decision 
making, promotion of parent 
participation in programs for 
unduplicated pupils and special need 
subgroups.  Covered in Parent 
Involvement.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˆ˚
˘
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚
ˇˇ


˚˙ˆ
˘“†‘
˘’’


˘‘
š

˘€
˘•†€
‡ˇˇ
—˚˙

ƒˇ⁄˙ˇ‹
˜›ˇ
−

–ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˚ˇƒ˚–ˇ
‰˙

‡

š˚ˇ„–

˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ˘
ˇ˘
”ˇ
‚˙

‡ˇ™ˇ
”

ˇ˙ˆ˚
Pupil Achievement Œ State Priority 4:  
Performance on standardized tests, score 
on Academic Performance Index, share of 
pupils that are college and career ready, 
share of English learners that become 
English pro˚cient, English learner 
reclassi˚cation rate, share of pupils that 
pass Advanced Placement exams with a 3 
or higher, and share of pupils determined 
prepared for college by the Early 
Assessment Program.  Covered in 
California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress, including the 
CAASPP charts.
Engagement (Pupil Engagement) Œ State 
Priority 5:  School attendance rates, chronic 
absenteeism rates, middle school dropout 
rates, high school dropout rates, and high 
school graduation rates.   Covered in 
Dropout Rates, including the Dropout 
chart; and Graduation Rates, including the 
Graduation Rate chart for high schools 
only.
School Climate Œ State Priority 6:  Pupil 
suspension rates, pupil expulsion rates, 
other local measures including surveys of 
pupils, and parents and teachers on the 
sense of safety and school connectedness.  
Covered in Discipline & Climate for 
Learning, including Suspension & 
Expulsion chart; and School Site Safety 
Plan.
Conditions of Learning (Course Access) Œ 
State Priority 7:  Pupil enrollment in a 
broad course of study that includes all of 
the subject areas.   Not covered in the 
School Accountability Report Card.
Other Pupil Outcomes Œ State Priority 8:  
Pupil outcomes in the subject areas.  
Covered in Physical Fitness, including the 
Physical Fitness Test chart.
PARENT INVOLVE
MENTParents are encouraged to get involved in 
their child™s learning environment by 
assisting at school events, participating in 
a decision-making group, or attending 
school events. Parents stay informed on 
upcoming events and school activities 
through Q Parent Connection, Facebook, 
social media, school newsletters, the 
school website, the school marquee, ˛yers, 
and automated telephone messages. 
Contact any school o˝ce sta˜ member for 
more information on how to become 
involved in your child™s learning 
environment.
Opportunities to Volunteer
Ł Chaperone School Activities
Ł Classroom Volunteers
Ł Fundraising
Committees
Ł School Site Council
Ł English Learner Advisory Council
Ł Parent Booster Club
School Activities
Ł Back to School Night
Ł Field Trips
Ł Open House
Ł Parent Education Workshops
Ł Parent Institutes
Ł Student Performances
Ł VCBH
Ł Title I Meetings
STUDENT ACHIEVE
MENTPhysical Fitness
In the spring of each year, San Cayetano 
Elementary School is required by the 
state to administer a physical ˚tness test 
to all students in ˚fth grade. The physical 
˚tness test measures each student™s 
ability to complete six ˚tness tasks in six 
major areas. Students that either meet or 
exceed the standards in all ˚ve of the six 
˚tness areas are considered to be 
physically ˚t or in the ﬁhealthy ˚tness 
zone.ﬂ Comparative District and state 
results can be found at the CDE™s web 
site www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/.
California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress 
(CAASPP)
The California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) 
System includes the Smarter Balanced 
Summative Assessments (SBAC) for 
students in the general education 
population, and the California Alternate 
Assessments (CAAs) for students with 
the most signi˚cant cognitive disabilities.  
Only eligible students may participate in 
the administration of the CAAs.  CAAs 
items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards 
(CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of 
how well students are mastering 
California™s standards in English 
language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades 
three through eight and grade eleven. 
˜˚˛˝˚˙
ˆ˚˛˝˚˙
˙˚˛˝˚˙
ˇ˘
˝

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆ˛˛˝ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛
ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ˛˚˚ˆˆ˚
˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝˝˘˛

˚˛˝˚˚
San Cayetano Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing 
computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with 
alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core State 
Standards (CCSS). 
The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, 
district and state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable 
subgroup. Results are shown only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the 
exam. For those categories that are blank in the tables, no students met subgroup 
criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the California Department of 
Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆˇ˘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˘ˆ˛˜ˆˆˆ˝ˆ
ˆˆˆˆ˛ˇ˝ˆ˝
˛ˆˇˆˆ˛˘ˆ
˛
†“‘’š‘€ˆˆˆ•ˆ˛˝ˆ˝ˆˆ
˘˝ˆˆ˘˛†“‘’š‘€ˆ…ˇˆ˛
—ˆ‘•ˆˆ˝ˆ˘˘ˆ‡˝ˆ˘˛
˝ˆ†“‘€š†“ˆ…ˇˆ˛—ˆ‘•ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛
ˆˆ

˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛ˆ˙˚˙˝˚
˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’šˆˆš˘˚


•‡š˛
……………………………………………………˜—˚ˆˆ–
……………………………………………………š˝˙˙ƒˆ⁄˝˘˛



ˇ˘›˙š‡ˆ


˛ˆ—š˛‡ˆ⁄š˙š˛š
“†“†

˛ˆ–‹š˘›ˆš˝˘˛ˆˇ˝˛š˚˘ˆ‹š
……
……
……
……………………………………˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆˇ˘ˇ˘˘˚ˇ˘˙˛ˇ
˙˙ˇ˘˙†“
š€
˙ˇ˙˚˘•

˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ
˜˝
˜˚˜˚˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛
˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝
ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
˛˝˚˘ˆ˛˚˚˘˘
ˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘ˆ˚˙ˆ˚˚ˆ˙˘˛˙˘ˆˆˇ
ˆˆˇ˙ˇ˛


˛˙˚˙ˆˆ˚˙ˆ˜˚˛˛ˇ˙ˇ˙˜˛
˘˛
˚ˆ˚˘ˇ˙˘ˇ˘˚˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
“ˇ˙ˇˆˇˆ˙‘˛’š€
SCHOOL FACILITIES
 & MAINTENANCEThe district takes great e˜orts to ensure 
that all schools are clean, safe, and 
functional through proper facilities 
maintenance and campus supervision. San 
Cayetano Elementary School™s original 
facilities were built in 1957; ongoing 
maintenance and campus improvements 
ensure facilities remain up to date and 
provide adequate space for students and 
sta˜.
2018-19 Campus Improvements:
Ł Painting projects to the exterior of the 
  campus
Ł Installation of new carpet in all 
  classrooms
Ł Installation of a shade structure outside 
  the cafeteria
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˝
ˆ˙˚˙
˘
˙†˚˝“˙‘˛’’˝’
˙†˚˙‘˛’’˝’
˙˚’˝’˙•’˙ˇ’˚‡
’’
‘˚˝˙—˛€
š—˘€˝˛˝
–˘…ˇ˝˚˙
–ˇ’˘˙
˘˚˙—˛€
ƒ⁄
˙
†
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝
San Cayetano Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Facilities Maintenance
District maintenance and site custodial 
sta˜ ensure that the repairs necessary to 
keep the school in good condition are 
completed in a timely manner. A work 
order process is used by school and district 
sta˜ to communicate non-routine 
maintenance requests. Emergency repairs 
are given the highest priority. 
Every morning before school begins, the 
custodians inspect facilities for safety 
hazards or other conditions that need 
attention prior to students and sta˜ 
entering school grounds. A team of two 
full-time and one part-time custodians are 
assigned to San Cayetano Elementary 
School and are responsible for cleaning of 
the following:
Ł Restrooms
Ł Cafeteria Setup/Cleanup
Ł General Cleaning & Custodial Functions
Ł Classrooms
Ł O˝ce Areas
Ł Library
Ł Cafeteria
Restrooms are checked throughout the 
day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The principal 
communicates with the lead day custodian 
daily concerning maintenance and school 
safety issues.
Facilities Inspections
The district™s maintenance department 
inspects San Cayetano Elementary School 
on an annual basis in accordance with 
Education Code §17592.72(c)(1).  San 
Cayetano Elementary School uses a school 
site inspection survey to identify unsafe or 
hazardous conditions and facility 
improvement needs.  The most recent 
school inspection took place on August 7, 
2019. During ˚scal year 2018-19, all 
restrooms were fully functional and 
available for student use.
Campus Supervision
School administration and teaching sta˜ 
place a high priority on providing 
adequate adult supervision on campus 
before, during, and after school. As 
students arrive on campus each morning, 
and during lunch time, yard supervisors 
monitor activity throughout the campus, 
entrance areas, and playground.  At the 
end of the day, the principal, the counselor, 
and teachers supervise dismissal and 
ensure a safe departure from the campus.   
San Cayetano Elementary School is a 
closed campus. During school hours, all 
visitors must sign in at the school™s o˝ce 
and wear identi˚cation badges while on 
school grounds.



School Site Safety Plan
The Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan was developed for San Cayetano 
Elementary School in collaboration with local agencies and the district o˝ce to ful˚ll 
Senate Bill 187 requirements. Components of this plan include child abuse reporting 
procedures, teacher noti˚cation of dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response 
procedures, procedures for safe arrival and departure from school, sexual harassment 
policy, dress code policy, and bully prevention policy. The school™s most recent school 
safety plan was reviewed, updated, and shared with school sta˜ in October 2019. 
Campus culture promotes a secure learning environment. All persons are to be treated 
with dignity and respect. The district, schools, students, parents/guardians and 
community have an obligation to promote mutual respect and safe, harmonious 
relations that support dignity and equality. Bullying and harassment are not tolerated. 
The school district has policies, procedures, and practices in place that are designed 
to reduce and eliminate bullying and harassment as well as processes and procedures 
to address incidents of bullying and harassment when they occur. Students and their 
parents receive information annually regarding district policies concerning anti-
bullying and harassment.
CLASSROO
M ENVIRON
MENTDiscipline & Climate for Learning
San Cayetano Elementary School™s discipline policies are based upon Positive Behavior 
Intervention and Supports (PBIS), a multi-tiered approach to social, emotional and 
behavior support. This schoolwide positive behavior management plan is used as a 
guide to develop school rules, develop behavior management programs, promote 
responsibility, promote respect, and minimize classroom disruptions. Teachers clearly 
identify and explain behavior expectations to their students and discuss consequences 
for poor or disruptive behavior in the classroom. Administrators lead assemblies and 
visit classrooms to reinforce the importance of following school rules and making 
responsible, respectful behavior choices. 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛˜ˆ
ˇ





˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘ˆ˛˛ˇ˘ˆ˛


San Cayetano Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
2018-19 Supplemental Professional 
Development
Ł Leveled Literacy Intervention (LLI)
   Training (Mild Moderate)
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention and
   Support (PBIS)
Ł SWUN Math
Ł Unit Development Days
Ł Technology Training
Ł Illuminate Training
Ł Benchmark Assessment Training
Ł ELD Coaching
2019-20 Supplemental Professional 
Development
Ł SWUN Math
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention and
   Support (PBIS)
Ł CHAMPS
Supplemental site-based professional 
development and collaboration takes 
place throughout the year during 
release time, after school, and during 
sta˜ meetings. San Cayetano 
Elementary School™s site-based 
professional development activities 
were identi˚ed based on district 
initiatives and sta˜ input to identify 
topics which were then discussed at 
sta˜ meetings throughout the year.  
Teacher training and collaboration 
concentrations are identi˚ed through 
analysis of student performance data 
and observation of classroom practices.   
During the past three years, San 
Cayetano Elementary School™s site-
based professional development has 
been focused on SWUN Math, PBIS/
CHAMPS, PLC™s, and SEAL. Core 
departments received individualized 
training relevant to their speci˚c area of 
teaching through the Ventura County 
O˝ce of Education.
Fillmore Uni˚ed School District and the 
Ventura County Superintendent of 
Schools jointly support new and veteran 
teachers in developing their teaching 
skills through the New Teacher 
Induction Program. The Teacher 
Induction program is a state-approved 
program that o˜ers ˚rst and second 
year teachers comprehensive support 
and training for new teachers with a 
preliminary credential; after successful 
completion of the two-year induction 
training, teachers may apply for their 
clear teaching credential.  
Class Size
The Average Class Size and Class Size  
Distribution table in this report illustrates 
the distribution of class sizes by subject 
area, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 
students, 21-32 students, and 33 or more 
students. Calculations exclude 
classrooms of 50 or more students.
CURRICULU
M & INSTRUCTION
Sta˜ Development
All curriculum and instructional 
improvement activities at Fillmore 
Uni˚ed School District are aligned to the 
California State Standards. Professional 
development concentrations are selected 
and identi˚ed based on district focus and 
California State Standards 
implementation. During the 2017-18, 
2018-19, and 2019-20 school years, San 
Cayetano Elementary School™s teaching 
sta˜ participated in districtwide 
professional development training 
focused on:







˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛ˆˇ˘
˙˙

ˆˇ
†“““
‘ˇ˙†’

“ˆ
•

…—˙–
˙

•†•
ƒ’˘˙˙ƒ˙
ˇ“
ƒ⁄ƒ⁄‘“
˙
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˇˇˇ˙˙˘ˇ
ˇ˙˙˙ˇˇˇ
˛ˆ˘
The district supplements site-level 
professional development to follow up 
and support year-round and ongoing 
programs centered around  reading, 
writing, and mathematics that is tied to 
either speci˚c strategies to improve 
student learning or training focused on 
district-adopted curriculum materials. 
Supplemental professional development 
is o˜ered throughout the school year on 
early student release days, after school, on 
designated sta˜ development days, and 
during substitute release time. District 
sta˜ work with school site administrators 
and teaching sta˜ to provide support and 
training to ensure the successful 
implementation of the California 
Standards.  During the 2017-18, 2018-19, 
and 2019-20 school years, San Cayetano 
Elementary School™s teaching sta˜ had the 
opportunity to participate in district 
o˜ered supplemental professional 
development training focused on:
2017-18 Supplemental Professional 
Development
Ł Seal/Unit Development Days 
   (ELA/ELD/HISS/Science Integration)
Ł Daily 5 (Early Literacy)
Ł Fountas and Pinnell (Early Literacy)
Ł ELPAC (ELD Assessment)
Ł Positive Behavior Intervention and  
   Support (PBIS)
Ł Learning Dynamics (Early Literacy)
Ł AVID Excel (ELD)
Ł English Language Development (ELD)
San Cayetano Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˚˜˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
˘†“
˜˚˚‘˘’˙
˜˚˚‘
š˙€†˙˙’
’
•˙
˙˙

ˇ
š˙
š˝’š
—ƒ⁄
ˇ⁄…˝˝ƒ
‰

‡–€
ˆ˙
ˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
ˆˇ
“
PRO
FESSIONAL STA
FFCounseling & Support Sta˜
San Cayetano Elementary School provides 
professional, highly quali˚ed sta˜ that 
provide additional services and support 
centered on the whole student 
academically, physically, and mentally. The 
Counseling and Support Services table in 
this report illustrates the availability of 
non-instructional support sta˜ to San 
Cayetano Elementary School™s students. 
Full-time equivalent (FTE) is a standard 
measurement used to identify an 
employee™s regular work load on a weekly 
basis. For example, an FTE of 1.0 designates 
a full-time position and the employee is on 
campus and available all day every day of 
the week; an FTE of 0.5 indicates that the 
sta˜ member is available and on campus 
a portion (50%) of the week.
Sta˜ members are encouraged to attend professional workshops and conferences. 
New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and 
support sta˜ are encouraged to participate in workshops sponsored by the Ventura 
County Superintendent of Schools as well as the Fillmore Uni˚ed School District. 
Profession and subject speci˚c o˜erings are consistent with the California State 
Standards. Classi˚ed support sta˜ may receive job-related training through faculty 
meetings supported by district input and independent e˜orts; training activities and 
workshops are designed to enhance and extend job performance.
Instructional Materials
All textbooks used in the core curriculum are aligned to the California State Standards. 
Instructional materials are selected from the state™s most recent list of standards-
based materials and adopted by the State Board of Education. The district follows 
the State Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core content materials (English/
Language Arts, math, science, and social science). 
On September 3, 2019, the Fillmore Uni˚ed School District Board of Education held 
a public hearing to certify the  extent to which textbooks and instructional materials 
have been provided to students. The Board of Education adopted Resolution #19-20-
04 which certi˚es as required by Education Code §60119 (1) that textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to all students, including English Learners, in 
the district to the extent that each pupil, including English Learners, has a standards-
aligned textbook and/or instructional materials to use in class and to take home, 
which may include materials in a digital format but shall not include photocopied 
sheets from only a portion of a textbook or instructional materials copied to address 
a shortage, (2) that all students who are enrolled in the same course within the district 
have standards-aligned textbooks or instructional materials from the same adoption 
cycle, (3) su˝cient textbooks and instructional materials were provided to each 
student, including English Learners, that are aligned to the academic content 
standards and consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum frameworks 
in math, science, history-social science, and English/Language Arts, including the 
English Language Development component of an adopted program, 4) su˝cient 
textbooks or instructional materials were provided to each pupil enrolled in foreign 
language or health classes, and 5) su˝cient laboratory science equipment was 
available for science laboratory classes o˜ered in grades 9-12, inclusive.
In addition to core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in their SARCs the 
su˝ciency of instructional materials used for their visual/performing arts curricula. 
During the 2019-20 school year, Fillmore Uni˚ed School District provided each 
student, including English Learners, enrolled in a visual/performing arts class with a 
textbook or instructional materials to use in class and to take home. These materials 
complied with the state™s content standards and curriculum framework.
˜˚˛˝˚˙˝
ˆˇ˘˙˙
˝

˝

ˇ

ˆ†’š
ˆˇ

€ˆˇˇ˝
ˇ


…
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
˜˚˛˝˙˛ˆ
ˇ

San Cayetano Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Teacher Assignment
During the 2018-19 school year, San Cayetano Elementary School had 24 teachers who 
met all credential requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below 
identi˚es the number of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully 
credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 
4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant 
teacher positions.  The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number of positions ˚lled 
by teachers who lack legal authorization to teacher that grade level, subject area, 
student group, etc.
DISTRICT
 EXPENDITURESSalary & Budget Comparison
State law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the 
general public. For comparison purposes, 
the State Department of Education has 
provided average salary data from school 
districts having similar average daily 
attendance throughout the state. (Note: 
2017-18 salary comparison data was the 
most recent data available at the time this 
report was published.)
Expenditures Per Student
For the 2017-18 school year, Fillmore 
Uni˚ed  School District spent an average 
of $12,146 of total general funds to 
educate each student (based on 2017-18 
audited ˚nancial statements and in 
accordance with calculations de˚ned in 
Education Code §41372). The table in this report 1) compares the school™s per pupil 
expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and restricted (supplemental) sources with other 
schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares the average teacher 
salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state levels. 
Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE web 
site at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The ˚gures shown 
in the following table re˛ect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding 
food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures).
In addition to general fund state funding, 
Fillmore Uni˚ed School District receives 
state and federal categorical funding for 
special programs. For the 2017-18 school 
year, the district received categorical, 
special education, and support programs 
funds for: 
Ł After School Education and Safety
  (ASES)
Ł Agricultural Career Technical Education
  Incentive
Ł California Clean Energy Jobs Act
Ł Career & Technical Education Programs
Ł Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional Materials
Ł Medi-Cal Billing Option
Ł Other Local: Locally De˚ned
Ł Special Education
Ł State Lottery
Ł STRS On-Behalf Pension Contributions
Ł Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
Ł Williams Case Settlement
SARC
 DATA
 & INTERNET
 ACCESS
DataQuest
DataQuest is an online data tool located 
at http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that 
contains additional information about 
San Cayetano Elementary School and 
comparisons of the school to the district, 
the county, and the state.  DataQuest 
provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited 
to, CAASPP results, Physical Fitness 
results, Suspensions and Expulsions, 
Dropout & Graduation Rates, enrollment, 
and sta˝ng statistics.
Public Internet Access Location
Parents may access San Cayetano 
Elementary School™s SARC and access the 
internet at any of the county™s public 
libraries. The closest public library to San 
Cayetano Elementary School is the 
Fillmore Library, a branch of Ventura 
County Library.
Address: 502 2nd Street, Fillmore, CA
Phone Number: (805) 524-3355
Web Site: www.vencolibrary.org
Number of Computers Available: 6
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˜˚˙˜˚˚˘
˜˚˝˜˚˚˘
ˇˇˇ˜ˇˇ˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇ
€˘•
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ˘—
ˇˇˇˇ˜˜
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ

–
˜˚˛˝
˛˙ˆ˙ˇ˘
˘
˝˘
˛ˇ˘
ˆ˙
˘˛
†“‘’˘˛
•˙˘˘˛
‡˘˛—
–˘˛
†ˇ˘˛

•˛

˛˘˛
‡˘˘˜—
˘˛

˙ˆ˙ˇ˘˛
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˛˘ˇ˘ˆ˛ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˙˝˚˛˘ˇ˘˛˝ˆˆ˝ˇ˝
ˆ˛ˇ˘ˇˆ˙˝˘˛˝˝ˇ˝˘ˇ˝
˙ˆ˘˚


San Cayetano Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Disclosure
The statistical information disclosed in this report is obtained from the California 
Department of Education and the Fillmore Uni˚ed School District. At the time of 
publication, this report met all SARC-related state and federal requirements, using the 
most current data available. Data to prepare the instructional materials section was 
acquired oin November 2019 and the school facilities section was acquired in December 
2019.
