McKevett Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
The 2018-19 school year offered McKevett 
students many opportunities to think critically, 
be creative, work collaboratively, and effectively 
communicate their thoughts. Students are held 
to high standards and expected to achieve 
at their highest potential. Our belief is that all 
children can learn given appropriate instruction, 
time and support. McKevett staff teaches using 
the Common Core State Standards and the 
English Language Development Standards 
to ensure that the students are successful in 
their academic careers. Aside from academic 
success, we strongly believe in educating the 
whole child which includes their social and 
emotional growth.District & School 
Description
Santa Paula Unified School District is located 
in the city of Santa Paula, a small historical 
community serving approximately 30,000 
residents within a 4.6 square-mile radius 
surrounded by rolling hills, avocado, and citrus 
groves. Santa Paula City is approximately 65 
miles northwest of Los Angeles and 14 miles 
east of Ventura. Santa Paula Unified School 
District operates six elementary schools, 
one middle school, one comprehensive high 
school and one continuation high school all 
nestled against the city™s foothills. During the 
2018-19 school year, the District served 5,270 
students in grades TK-12. The demographic 
composition of the student body included 
13.6% students identified with a disability, 
35.8% qualifying for English learner support, 
88.6% enrolled in the Free or Reduced Price 
Meal program, 1.4% migrant, 0.1% foster 
youth, and 9.6% homeless youth. 
District Vision & 
Mission
The Santa Paula Unified School District provides 
exemplary learning environments for all students 
to be prepared to successfully contribute to a 
diverse global society.
The Santa Paula Unified School District, in 
collaboration with educators, parents, and 
community, will prepare students academically, 
emotionally and socially for college, careers, 
global citizenship, and lifelong learning.  At each 
grade level, all students are provided diverse 
and differentiated experiences and learning 
opportunities by a highly skilled educational team 
in a safe and supportive learning environment.
The Santa Paula Unified School District Board 
of Trustees strongly value and believe that 
our students need to be prepared for the 21st 
Century.  Consequently, the District™s core values 
reflect a commitment to:Ł  improving student academic performanceŁ  providing safe and healthy schoolsŁ  promoting stakeholder inputŁ  fostering a positive district cultureEducating our students and supporting the school 
community is our responsibility!During the 2018-19 school year, McKevett 
Elementary served 337 students in grades K-5. 
Student enrollment included 49.9% qualifying for 
English learner support, 16% students identified 
with a disability, 88.4% enrolled in the Free or 
Reduced Price Meal program, 0.3% foster youth, 
and 12.2% homeless youth.McKevett Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Local Control 
Accountability Plan 
(LCAP)
As part of the new Local Control Funding 
Formula, school districts are required to 
develop, adopt, and annually update a three-year Local Control and Accountability Plan 
(LCAP). The following components of this 
SARC address some of the priorities identified 
in the District™s LCAP:
State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł  
Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area and for the pupils they are 
teaching;Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and School facilities 
are maintained in good repairState Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of 
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
school district and each school siteState Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł  
Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance 
and Progress [CAASPP] System, which 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general 
education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for English 
language arts/literacy [ELA] and mathematics 
given in grades three through eight and grade 
eleven. Only eligible students may participate 
in the administration of the CAAs. CAAs 
items are aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the Common 
Core State Standards [CCSS] for students 
with the most significant cognitive disabilities); 
and 
Ł  
The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the California 
State University, or career technical education 
sequences or programs of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the California 
State University, or career technical education 
sequences or programs of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł High school dropout rates; andŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension rates;Ł Pupil expulsion rates; andŁ Other local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access (Conditions of 
Learning)The SARC does not recover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes (Pupil 
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of physical 
educationParent Involvement
We strongly encourage and welcome parent 
support! There are many opportunities for you 
to become involved in your child™s educational 
journey. Please take advantage of the 
opportunities that are available to you.
FundraisersClassroom Volunteers
Field Trip Chaperones
RecyclingSchool Activities (Field Day, Movie Nights, Book 
  Fair & Family Literacy Night)Spirit Shirt SalesEnglish Learner Advisory Council (ELAC)
District Advisory Committee (DAC)
District English Learner Advisory Council 
    (DELAC)Migrant Parent District Advisory Committee 
    (MPDAC)Parent District Advisory Committee (PDAC)
PTO - Friends of McKevett 
School Site Council
Back to School NightBook FairFamily Literacy NightField DayFlag CeremoniesMath NightsMovie NightsParent Education NightsPrincipal Coffee & Chats
Recognition AssembliesStudent PerformancesParents are informed of school events 
through the school website, EdConnect phone 
messages, monthly calendars, and flyers. 
There is also an opportunity to hear about 
important school news by attending monthly 
coffee chats with the principal. Please visit 
our school website to find the most current 
information. You can also contact the office 
between the hours of 7:30 and 4:00 at (805) 
933-8910 with any questions you may have.Student Achievement

Santa Paula Unified School District utilizes 
districtwide interim assessments that are 
aligned to the Common Core State Standards.  
These assessments are used to evaluate 
instructional programs and measure student 
proficiency of all students in math and 
language arts.  Test results are used to 1) 
help teachers identify areas where instruction 
may or may not be effective, 2) analyze and 
readjust curriculum maps, 3) identify concepts 
that need to be retaught in the classroom, 4) 
plan in-class lessons, and 5) identify students 
who need targeted academic assistance or 
intervention.



McKevett Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
In the spring of each year, McKevett Elementary 
is required by the state to administer a physical 

fitness test to all students in the fifth grade. The 

physical fitness test measures each student™s 

ability to complete six fitness tasks in six major 

areas. Students that either meet or exceed 

the standards in five of six fitness areas are 

considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy 

fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative district and state 

results can be found at the CDE™s website 

www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/. 
School Facilities & 
Safety
McKevett Elementary School provides a safe, 
clean environment for learning through proper 

facilities maintenance and campus supervision. 

Original school buildings were constructed in 

1911; ongoing maintenance ensures school 

facilities are kept safe and in good working 

condition, and continue to provide adequate 

space for students and staff.  
A work order process is used by school and 
district staff to communicate non-routine 

maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are 

given the highest priority.  
2018-19 through 2019-20 Campus  Repair or 
Improvement Projects:ŁRoofing projectŁInstallation of a new walk-in cooler freezerŁUpgrades to electrical projectŁAir conditioning upgrade project˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˙˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ




˜


‘’š
˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’šˆˆš˘˚


•‡š˛
……………………………………………………š˝˙˙—ˆ–š˝˘˛


ˇ˘⁄˙š‡ˆ


˛ˆ‹š˛‡ˆ–š˙š˛š


‘˛ˆ›‡
……………………………………………………˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆ
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙˛
˙˙ˇ˘˙
“˙ˇ˙˚˘•









The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 

population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most significant 

cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs.  

CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the Common 

Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well students are mastering 

California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to 

grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/

Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test 

items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core 

State Standards (CCSS). 
The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown 

only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 

in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the 

California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
McKevett Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Classroom 
Environment
McKevett Elementary School recognizes 
students with certificates, prizes, and 
various other awards throughout the year 
at assemblies and special presentations.  
Trimester assemblies are held for student 
academic and behavior recognition.  Students 
may earn individual recognition and prizes 
for Accelerated Reader and good behavior.  
McKevett Elementary School also awards 
students using ﬁCaught Being Good Ticketsﬂ 
for displaying safety, respect and responsibility.  
Students can also earn a Triple Crown when 
they score proficient in addition, subtraction 
and multiplication facts.
Students at McKevett Elementary School 
are guided by specific rules and classroom 
expectations that promote respect, 
cooperation, courtesy, and acceptance of 
others.  The school™s discipline philosophy 
promotes a safe school, warm and friendly 
classroom environment, and demonstrates that 
good discipline is a solid foundation on which to 
build an effective school.  The goal of McKevett 
Elementary School™s discipline program is to 
provide students with opportunities to learn 
self-discipline through a system of consistent 
rewards and progressive consequences for 
their behavior.
School administration and teaching staff place 
a high priority on providing adequate adult 
supervision on campus before, during, and 
after school. As students arrive on campus 
each morning, staff are strategically assigned 
to designated areas to monitor student activity. 
During recess teachers monitor playground 
activity. Cafeteria staff monitor lunch time activity 
while students are in the cafeteria, and noon duty 
supervisors monitor activity on the playground.  At 
the end of the day when students are dismissed, 
teachers monitor student behavior to ensure a 
safe and orderly departure. 
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain a 
safe and secure environment, all parents and 
visitors are required to check in at the school 
office upon arrival, obtain and wear a visitor™s 
badge, and then return to the school office upon 
departure.Santa Paula Unified School District allocates 
deferred maintenance money to fund the repairs or 
replacement of existing school building components 

plumbing, heating, air conditioning, electrical 

systems.During the 2018-19 school year, Santa Paula 
Unified School District allocated $77,207 of 
deferred maintenance funds for the following 
projects at McKevett Elementary School:Ł Walk-in cooler project
Every morning before school begins, the 
custodian inspects facilities for safety hazards 
or other conditions that need attention prior to 
students and staff entering school grounds. 
One day custodian and one part-time 
evening custodian are assigned to McKevett 
Elementary. The day custodian is responsible 
for:Ł Cafeteria setup and cleaningŁ Emergency callsŁ Office area cleaning
Ł Restroom cleaningŁ Trash removal
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout 
the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The evening custodian is 
responsible for:Ł Classroom cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff daily concerning maintenance and school 
safety issues.On an annual basis, schools are required 
by the state to perform a comprehensive 
inspection and report those findings to the 
school community. The most recent inspection 
for McKevett Elementary School took place on 
August 12, 2019. The School Facility Good 
Repair Status table illustrated in this report 
identifies the state-required inspection areas 
and discloses the operational status in each of 
those areas. During the 2018-19 school year, 
100% of restrooms were fully operational and 
available to students at all times.The Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for McKevett Elementary in 
collaboration with local agencies and the district 
office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 requirements. 
Components of this plan include child abuse 
reporting procedures, teacher notification of 
dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response 
procedures, procedures for safe arrival and 
departure from school, sexual harassment 
policy, dress code policy, and bully prevention 
policy. The school™s most current safety plan 
was reviewed, updated and shared with school 
staff in fall 2019.





McKevett Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students. 
Calculations exclude classrooms of 50 or more 
students.

McKevett Elementary School offers 
differentiated instruction to students who 
qualify for the Gifted and Talented Education 
(GATE) program in grades 3-5.
Curriculum & 
Instruction
All professional development opportunities at 
Santa Paula Unified School District are being 
aligned to the California State Standards. Staff 
development concentrations are selected and 
identified based upon student assessment 
results, teacher input, state content standards, 
and professional development surveys.During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 
District provided the following staff development 
training:All classified staff participate in county- and 
district-sponsored training sessions addressing 
sexual harassment, sexual molestation, and 
ergonomics.All textbooks used in the core curriculum 
throughout Santa Paula Unified School District 
are currently being aligned to the California 
State Standards. Instructional materials are 
standards-based and approved by the district™s 
Board of Trustees. The district follows the State 
Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core 
content materials and for textbook adoptions 
in foreign language, visual and performing arts, 
and health. 
On September 11, 2019, the Santa Paula 
Unified School District™s Board of Trustees held 
a public hearing to certify the extent to which 
textbooks and instructional materials have been 
provided to students. The Board of Trustees 
adopted Resolution 2019 - 20:01 Sufficiency 
of Textbooks or Instructional Materials
 which 
certifies as required by Education Code §60119 
that (1) textbooks and instructional materials 
were provided to all students, including English 
Learners, in the district to the extent that 
each student has a textbook or instructional 
materials, or both, to use in class and to take 
home, which may include materials in a digital 
format but shall not include photocopied sheets 
from only a portion of a textbook or instructional 
materials copied to address a shortage (2) all 
students who are enrolled in the same course 
within the district, have standards-aligned 
textbooks or instructional materials from the 
same adoption cycle, 3) sufficient textbooks 
and instructional materials were provided to 
each student, including English Learners, 
that are aligned to the academic content 
standards and consistent with the cycles 
and content of the curriculum frameworks in 
math, science, history-social science, and 
English/language arts, including the English 
language development component of an 
adopted program, and 4) sufficient textbooks 
or instructional materials were provided to each 
student enrolled in foreign language or health 
classes, and 5) laboratory science equipment 
was available for science laboratory classes 
offered in grades 9-12, inclusive. 
In addition to the core subject areas, districts 
are required to disclose in this annual report 
the sufficiency of instructional materials used 
for its visual/performing arts curricula. During 
the 2019-20 school year, Santa Paula Unified 
School District provided all students enrolled 
in a visual/performing arts class with their 
own instructional materials or supplemental 
materials to use in class and to take home. 
These materials comply with the state™s content 
standards and curriculum frameworks.˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝˙
˜˝˛˜
˛˝
˙˙˝˛˜
˝
˛˝˜˛
ˇ˝˙
˜˝˙
˛˝˙
˙˝˙
˝
˛˝˜˛
ˇ˝˙
˜˝˙
˛˝
˛˙˝˙
˝
˛˝˜˛

˜˘




‘’š

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
2017-18
0 days
2018-19
0 days
2019-20
0 days
 English Language Arts: Wonders Curriculum
   Exploration, English Language Development & Writing
   Instruction
 Science: Building Awareness, Instructional Model &
   Hands on Examples
 Mathematics: Instructional Routines, Building Number
  Sense & Math Learning Walks
Number of School Days/Topics Dedicated to Staff 
Development & Continuous Improvement
 Pacing Guides Training
 ELD Standards Training
 Report Card Training
 Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS)
 Engaging English Learners
 Formative Assessments
 Literably Online Assessment Pilot
 Picture Perfect Science
 Curriculum Advisory Team (CAT) 
 1 to 1 Initiative (Technology)
 Curriculum Advisory Team (CAT) 
 ELA
 ELD
 Lesson Planning & Observation
 Lesson Study
 Literably Online Assessment
 Mathematics
 Next Generation Science Standards
 Picture Perfect Science
 Technology
 Writing
During the 2018-19 school year, McKevett 
Elementary provided site-based staff 
development during weekly release days and at 
staff meetings. Topics were centered around the 
District™s focus for staff development identified 
by the Educational Services Department. 
Training topics included:
Ł Academic Conversations
Ł Emergency PreparednessŁ SafetySanta Paula Unified School District supports 
new teachers in developing their teaching skills 
and earning a Professional Clear Teaching 
Credential. The district™s New Teacher Induction 
Consortium, formerly known as the Beginning 
Teacher Support and Assessment (BTSA) 
program, is designed for first- and second-year 
teachers to receive structured guidance and 
support from experienced teachers over a two-
year period. 
Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. 
New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and support 
staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the Ventura County Office of 
Education. Special education staff participate in 
local and county sponsored professional training 
activities throughout the school year. Classified 
support staff may receive additional job-related 
training from the county office of education. 
McKevett Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
The Santa Paula Unified School District is using supplemental materials in addition to current 
Science textbooks and History/Social Science textbooks in order to meet State requirements, but 
plans to pilot and adopt textbooks as follows:K-5 History-SS -Pilot/Adoption: 2020-21K-5 Science Œ Pilot/Adoption 2021-22Specialized Instruction
All curriculum and instruction are being aligned to the California State Standards approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every student receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned 
curriculum. The district provides chrome books or iPads to all students as part of a 1:1 technology 
initiative and supports the utilization of google suite to enhance student learning. McKevett 
Elementary School structures its educational program so that all students receive instruction 
appropriate to their learning level. To ensure the success of every student, teachers use a variety of 
instructional techniques using research-based instructional materials and strategies. 
Special Education students are mainstreamed into the general education classroom based upon 
their IEP (Individual Education Plan) and provided instruction in the least restrictive environment. 
Each student is assigned a case manager to oversee the implementation of the IEP. Special 
Education services include regular education accommodations, speech and language services, 
audiology services, and psychological counseling. General education and Special Education staff 
provide support to students through a collaborative model to provide core instruction. Each student 
is provided instruction based upon their IEP, which is reviewed and updated annually by the school™s 
IEP team. The IEP ensures students with disabilities have equal access to core curriculum and 
educational opportunities and is designed to coordinate specially-designed instruction based upon 
individual academic, social, and/or behavioral needs.  
McKevett Elementary School provides English Language Learner (ELL) students with English 
Language Development (ELD) instruction within their regular classrooms.  Students are grouped 
by acquisition level for 30 minutes daily in kindergarten through second grade and 45 minutes daily 
for students in third through fifth grades. English Learner students also receive integrated language 
support throughout the day in their core curricular areas. Newcomers receive ELD specifically 
designed for their language level by an ELD specialist.  
McKevett Elementary School supports 
intervention programs to meet the needs of 
those students not meeting state proficiency 
standards in language arts and math by 
instructional assistants who work with K-2 
students in a 1:1 or small group setting and the 
ASPIRE (After School Program for Instruction, 
Reading & Enrichment) program. Push-in and 
pull-out reading intervention support is provided 
by a reading specialist.Professional Staff

During the 2018-19 school year, McKevett 
Elementary had 20 teachers who met all 
credential requirements in accordance with 
state guidelines.  The chart below identifies 
the number of teachers at both the school and 
district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without 
full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area 
of competence; 4) misassignments for English 
learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; 
and 6) vacant teacher positions.  Those 
teachers without a full credential include LEA 
and university internships, pre-internships, 
emergency or other permits, and waivers.  The 
term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number 
of positions filled by teachers who lack legal 
authorization to teacher that grade level, subject 
area, student group, etc.McKevett Elementary provides professional, 
highly qualified staff that provide additional 
services and support centered on the whole 
child. The Counseling and Support Services 
table in this report illustrates the availability 
of non-instructional support staff to McKevett 
Elementary™s students. Full-time equivalent 
(FTE) is a standard measurement used to 
identify an employee™s regular work load on 
a weekly basis. For example, an FTE of 1.0 
designates a full-time position and the employee 
is on campus and available all day every day of 
the week; an FTE of 0.5 indicates that the staff 
member is available and on campus a portion 
(50%) of the week.2017Yes 
McMillan McGraw Hill - 
Wonders
0%2015Yes 
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt - 
Math Expressions
0%2008NoDelta Foss Science Kits - 
CA Science
0%2007NoPearson Scott Foresman - History/Social Science
0%Science
Social Science
Year 
Adopted
Publisher and Series
Percent of Pupils 
Who Lack Their Own 
Assigned Textbooks 
and/or Instructional 
Materials
From Most 
Recent State 
Adoption?
Textbooks
Reading/Language Arts
Math
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˜˝ˆˇ˜˝
˘
˜˝ˆˇ˜˝
˘
ˇˇˇ˚ˇˇ
˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
€˘•ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
€








McKevett Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District Expenditures
State law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the 
general public. For comparison purposes, the 
State Department of Education has provided 
average salary data from school districts 
having similar average daily attendance 
throughout the state.For the 2017-18 school year, Santa Paula 
Unified School District spent an average of 
$12,956 of total general funds to educate 
each student (based on 2017-18 audited 
financial statements). The table in this 
report: 1) compares the school™s per pupil 
expenditures from unrestricted (basic) and 
restricted (supplemental) sources with other 
schools in the district and throughout the 
state, and 2) compares the average teacher 
salary at the school site with average teacher 
salaries at the district and state levels. 
Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.
cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect 
the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and 
construction, and certain other expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Santa Paula Unified School District receives state and 
federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District received 
federal, state, and local aid for the following categorical, Special Education, and support programs:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)Ł Career and Technical Education Programs
Ł California Career Pathways Trust
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł Department of RehabilitationŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Other Local:  Locally DefinedŁ Partnership Academies Program
Ł Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
SARC Data & Internet 
AccessDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about McKevett 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.
Parents may access McKevett Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the Internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries. The closest 
public library to McKevett Elementary School 
is the Santa Paula Public Library located at 
119 North 8th Street, Santa Paula.
Santa Paula Public LibraryPhone: (805) 525-3615Hours:  Mon., Tues. & Thurs. 12-8 
             Wed. 10-6
             Sat. 10-2; 
             Fri. & Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 7
Printers Available: Yes









McKevett Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
