Blanchard Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
The School Accountability Report Card 
is intended to provide information to the 

community about how Blanchard School is 

managed, how resources are utilized, the 

services and programs that our school offers 

students, and how students are performing 

academically on annual assessments.  

Blanchard School is proud of our many 

accomplishments and our work with children.  

We recognize the challenges with which we are 

presented and the need for constant evaluation 

and improvement as necessary.
Blanchard maintains a warm and nurturing 
environment for learning.  Our dedicated staff 

provides each student with quality standards-
based education utilizing data and research-
based instructional strategies. Academic 

support and intervention, as well as behavioral/
social/emotional support, is provided to 

students who meet specified criteria to promote 

academic success and responsible behavior.
Parents are welcome at our school and have 
many opportunities to be involved in the school 

community.  Parents serve as volunteers in the 

classroom, for special activities and serve on 

School Site Council, and Friends of Blanchard 

School. In addition to site-based committees, 

parents can represent the school and serve on 

District committees.We believe that an effective school is one in 
which teachers, parents, students, and staff 

work together as a supportive community for 

learners.  A cooperative partnership between 

home and school provides the best opportunity 

for each of our students to reach his or her 

highest potential.District & School 
Description
Santa Paula Unified School District is located 
in the city of Santa Paula, a small historical 

community serving approximately 30,000 

residents within a 4.6 square-mile radius 

surrounded by rolling hills, avocado, and citrus 

groves. Santa Paula City is approximately 65 
miles northwest of Los Angeles and 14 miles east 

of Ventura. Santa Paula Unified School District 

operates six elementary schools, one middle 

school, one comprehensive high school and one 

continuation high school all nestled against the 

city™s foothills. During the 2018-19 school year, 

the District served 5,270 students in grades TK-

12.The demographic composition of the student

body included 13.6% students identified with a
disability, 35.8% qualifying for English learner

support, 88.6% enrolled in the Free or Reduced
Price Meal program, 1.4% migrant, 0.1% foster
youth, and 9.6% homeless youth.District Vision & 
Mission
The Santa Paula Unified School District provides 
exemplary learning environments for all students 

to be prepared to successfully contribute to a 

diverse global society.
The Santa Paula Unified School District, in 

collaboration with educators, parents, and 

community, will prepare students academically, 

emotionally and socially for college, careers, 

global citizenship, and lifelong learning.  At each 

grade level, all students are provided diverse 

and differentiated experiences and learning 

opportunities by a highly skilled educational team 

in a safe and supportive learning environment.
The Santa Paula Unified School District Board 

of Trustees strongly value and believe that 

our students need to be prepared for the 21st 

Century.  Consequently, the District™s core values 

reflect a commitment to:Łimproving student academic performance
Łproviding safe and healthy schools



Łpromoting stakeholder input
Łfostering a positive district culture
Educating our students and supporting the school 

community is our responsibility!Blanchard Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2018-19 school year, Blanchard 
Elementary served 357 students in grades TK-

5.Student enrollment included 37.5% qualifying

for English learner support, 11.8% students

identified with a disability, 84.6% enrolled in

the Free or Reduced Price Meal program,
1.4% migrant, 0.6% foster youth, and 13.2%
homeless youth.The ﬁKindergartenﬂ number of students shown in the chart above includes both 
TK and kindergarten numbers.Local Control 
Accountability Plan 

(LCAP)
As part of the Local Control Funding Formula, 
school districts are required to develop, adopt, 

and annually update a three-year Local Control 

and Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 

components of this SARC address some of the 

priorities identified in the District™s LCAP:
State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriatelyassigned and fully credentialed in the subject
area and for the pupils they are teaching;ŁPupils have access to standards-aligned
instructional materials; and School facilities
are maintained in good repair.State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of 

Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
ŁEfforts the school district makes to seekparent input in making decisions for theschool district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 

Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California Assessment of Student Performance 
and Progress [CAASPP] System, which 

includes the Smarter Balanced Summative

Assessments for students in the general
education population and the California 

Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for 

English language arts/literacy [ELA] and 

mathematics given in grades three through
eight and grade eleven. Only eligible 

students may participate in the administration 

of the CAAs. CAAs items are aligned with
alternate achievement standards, which 

are linked with the Common Core State
Standards [CCSS] for students with the most
significant cognitive disabilities);Ł The percentage of students who have successfully completed courses that 

satisfy the requirements for entrance to the

University of California and the California
State University, or career technical 

education sequences or programs of study.
ŁThe percentage of students who have successfully completed courses that 

satisfy the requirements for entrance to the

University of California and the California
State University, or career technical 

education sequences or programs of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement 

(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
ŁHigh school dropout rates; andŁHigh school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:ŁPupil suspension rates;ŁPupil expulsion rates; andŁOther local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access (Conditions of 
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes (Pupil 
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Pupil outcomes in the subject area of physical 
education.Parent Involvement
Parents are encouraged to get involved in 

their child™s learning environment either by 

volunteering in the classroom, participating in 

a decision-making group, or simply attending 

school events.
Classroom Volunteer

Fundraising Activities
Special Events
Study Trips
English Learner Advisory Council (ELAC)

District Advisory Committee (DAC)

District English Learner Advisory Council

  (DELAC) 

LCAP Committee 

Migrant Parent District Advisory Committee 
   (MPDAC) 

Parent Teacher Organization - Friends of 

   Blanchard
School Site Council
Adult ESL Classes (4 days per week)

Back to School Night
Class Celebrations
Family Movie Nights
Family Science Nights
Field Day
Parent Conferences
Parent Education Nights
Spelling Bee
Title I Meetings

Trimester Awards Assemblies

Winter/Spring PerformancesParents stay informed on upcoming events 

and school activities through flyers, monthly 

calendars, parent conferences, weekly 

Blackboard Connect messages, Blackboard 

Connect text messages, school and district 

websites, and the bulletin board at the front of 

the school. Contact your child™s teacher or the 

principal at (805) 933-8866 for more information 

on how to become involved in your child™s 

learning environment.Student Achievement

Santa Paula Unified School District utilizes 
districtwide interim assessments that are aligned 

to the Common Core State Standards.  These 

assessments are used to evaluate instructional 

programs and measure student proficiency of all 

students in math and language arts.  Test results 

are used to 1) help teachers identify areas 

where instruction may or may not be effective, 

2)analyze and readjust curriculum maps, 3)

identify concepts that need to be retaught in
the classroom, 4) plan in-class lessons, and 5)
identify students who need targeted academic
assistance or intervention.




Blanchard Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
The CAASPP results shown in this report 
include overall results comparing the school, 

district and state scores as well as the school™s 

overall score in each applicable subgroup. 

Results are shown only for subgroups with 

ten students or more taking the exam. For 

those categories that are blank in the tables, 

no students met subgroup criteria. More 

information on CAASPP can be found on the 

California Department of Education™s website 

www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
In the spring of each year, Blanchard 

Elementary is required by the state to 

administer a physical fitness test to all students 

in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test 

measures each student™s ability to complete 

six fitness tasks in six major areas. Students 

that either meet or exceed the standards in 

five of six fitness areas are considered to be 

physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness zone.ﬂ 

Comparative district and state results can be 

found at the CDE™s website www.cde.ca.gov/

ta/tg/pf/. 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ
˜˙
˜˙˜˙˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ


ˇ˛
ˇ
˚˚˙ˆ

ˆ˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛ˇ˙
˝˚
ˇ
˜˛˛˚
˚ˆ
˚

˙
˙˘
˙˘ˇ˘
˚
˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
†“
ˇ
ˇˆ˚ˆ
˝
˙
‘˛ˇ
˚
’š€

˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘
˚

ˆ˚˙ˆ

˚˚ˆ˘
˝˚˚˙˘
ˆ
˚
ˆˇˆ
˚
ˆˇˇ˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛

˝˙


˝˙
†˙˝“ˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
šššššššššššššššššššš˝˘ˆ€˘’˝˘ˆ˚“’˘ˆ˝˛
šššššššššššššššššššš•’ˆˆ…˝˛’˘˚

–ƒ’˛
šššššššššššššššššššš’˝˙˙⁄ˆ‹˝˘˛

ˇ˘›˙’ƒˆ


˛ˆ−’˛ƒˆ‹’˙’˛’


˛ˆ‰’˘›ˆ’˝˘˛ˆˇ˝˛’˚˘ˆ’
šš
šš
šš
šššššššššššššš˛ˆ„ƒ
šššššššššššššššššššš˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆ
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙˛
˙˙ˇ˘˙
“˙ˇ˙˚˘•










The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 

population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most significant 

cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs.  

CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the Common 

Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well students are mastering 

California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to 

grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/

Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test 

items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core 

State Standards (CCSS). 
Blanchard Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
dress code policy, and bully prevention policy. 
The school™s most current safety plan was 
reviewed, updated and shared with school staff 
in fall 2019.School administration and teaching staff place 
a high priority on providing adequate adult 
supervision on campus before, during, and 
after school. As students arrive on campus 
each morning, teachers are strategically 
assigned to supervise students at the outside 
lunch tables and cafeteria staff monitor student 
activity while at breakfast in the cafeteria. 
During recess teachers monitor playground 
activity. Noon duty supervisors monitor 
activity at lunch time in the cafeteria and on 
the playground.  At the end of the day when 
students are dismissed, the principal and 
teachers monitor student behavior to ensure a 
safe and orderly departure. 
Many individuals visit the campus as 
volunteers or to participate in school events. 
To maintain a safe and secure environment, all 
parents and visitors are required to check in at 
the school office upon arrival, obtain and wear 
a visitor™s badge, and then return to the school 
office prior to departure to sign out.
Classroom 
Environment
Blanchard Elementary School holds trimester 
award assemblies where students may receive 
certificates for achievement in many areas.  
Certificates are given to students at assemblies 
and special presentations throughout the 
school year.  For example, students are 
recognized for Citizenship, Most Improved, 
On an annual basis, schools are required by the 
state to perform a comprehensive inspection and 
report those findings to the school community. 
The most recent inspection for Blanchard 
Elementary School took place on August 19, 
2019. The School Facility Good Repair Status 
table illustrated in this report identifies the state-
required inspection areas and discloses the 
operational status in each of those areas. During 
the 2018-19 school year, 100% of restrooms 
were fully operational and available to students at 
all times.Santa Paula Unified School District allocates 
deferred maintenance money to fund the repairs or 
replacement of existing school building components 

plumbing, heating, air conditioning, electrical 

systems.During the 2018-19 school year, Santa Paula 
Unified School District allocated $17,330 of 
deferred maintenance funds for the following 
projects at Blanchard Elementary School:Ł Moisture RemediationŁ 
Ł Architectural services for cooler projectThe Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for Blanchard Elementary in 
collaboration with local agencies and the district 
office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 requirements. 
Components of this plan include child abuse 
reporting procedures, teacher notification of 
dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response 
procedures, procedures for safe arrival and 
departure from school, sexual harassment policy, 
School Facilities & 
Safety
Blanchard Elementary School provides a safe, 
clean environment for learning through proper 
facilities maintenance and campus supervision. 
Original school buildings were constructed in 
1960; ongoing maintenance ensures school 
facilities are kept safe and in good working 
condition, and continue to provide adequate 
space for students and staff. A work order 
process is used by school and district staff 
to communicate non-routine maintenance 
requests. Emergency repairs are given the 
highest priority.
2018-19 through 2019-20 Campus  Repair or 
Improvement Projects:Ł Installation of new A/C units
Ł Remodel of front office
Ł Maintenance on school buildings and ramps 
(repairs where needed)Ł Remodel second half of front office
Every morning before school begins, the 
custodian inspects facilities for safety hazards 
or other conditions that need attention prior to 
students and staff entering school grounds. 
One day custodian and two evening custodians 
(one full-time and one part-time) are assigned 
to Blanchard Elementary. The day custodian is 
responsible for:Ł Cafeteria setup and cleaningŁ Computer lab and library cleaningŁ Office area cleaning
Ł Restroom cleaningŁ Trash removal
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout 
the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The evening custodians 
are responsible for:Ł Classroom cleaningŁ Setup/cleanup of evening activitiesŁ Kitchen cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff daily concerning maintenance and school 
safety issues.


Blanchard Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 
District offered the following staff development 
training:Santa Paula Unified School District supports 
new teachers in developing their teaching skills 
and earning a Professional Clear Teaching 
Credential. The district™s New Teacher Induction 
Consortium, formerly known as the Beginning 
Teacher Support and Assessment (BTSA) 
program, is designed for first- and second-year 
teachers to receive structured guidance and 
support from experienced teachers over a two-year period. 
Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. 
New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and support 
staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
sponsored by the Ventura County Office of 
Education. Special education staff participate 
in local and county sponsored professional 
training activities throughout the school year. 
Classified support staff may receive additional 
job-related training from the county office 
of education. All classified staff participate 
in county- and district-sponsored training 
sessions addressing sexual harassment, 
sexual molestation, and ergonomics.˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝
˜˝˜˛
˛˝
˙˙˝˛˜
˝
˙˝
˙
ˇ˝˙
˜˝
˛˛˝˜˛
˙˝
˙˝
˛˝
˙ˇ˝˛˛
˜˝
˛˛˝˜˛
˙˝˙
˝
˛˝
˙
˛˝˜˘˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝





†
‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ


2017-18
0 days
2018-19
0 days
2019-20
0 days
 English Language Arts: Wonders Curriculum
   Exploration, English Language Development & Writing
   Instruction
 Science: Building Awareness, Instructional Model &
   Hands on Examples
 Mathematics: Instructional Routines, Building Number
  Sense & Math Learning Walks
Number of School Days/Topics Dedicated to Staff 
Development & Continuous Improvement
 Pacing Guides Training
 ELD Standards Training
 Report Card Training
 Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS)
 Engaging English Learners
 Formative Assessments
 Literably Online Assessment Pilot
 Picture Perfect Science
 Curriculum Advisory Team (CAT) 
 1 to 1 Initiative (Technology)
 Curriculum Advisory Team (CAT) 
 ELA
 ELD
 Lesson Planning & Observation
 Lesson Study
 Literably Online Assessment
 Mathematics
 Next Generation Science Standards
 Picture Perfect Science
 Technology
 Writing
Perfect Attendance, Academic Excellence, and 
showing positive behavior. There is a Principal™s 
recess the third Friday of each month for those 
students who demonstrate the character skill or 
trait identified for that month.    

Students are encouraged to participate in the 
school™s additional academic and extracurricular 
activities that are an integral part of the 
educational program. Activities include: Jr. ASB, 
yearbook, art club, and the chess club.
Students at Blanchard Elementary School are 
guided by school-wide rules and classroom 
expectations that promote respect, cooperation, 
courtesy, and acceptance of others.  The school™s 
discipline philosophy promotes a safe school, a 
warm and friendly classroom environment, and 
demonstrates that positive discipline is a solid 
foundation on which to build an effective school.  
The goal of Blanchard Elementary School™s 
discipline program is to nurture self-esteem and 
provide students with opportunities to learn self-discipline through a system of consistent rewards 
and consequences for their behavior.  Parents 
and students are informed of discipline policies 
at the beginning of each school year through 
Rights & Responsibilities Packets and a parent 
handbook.  The principal and counselor review 
rules with students at the beginning of each 
trimester.  
The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by grade 
level, the average class size, and the number 
of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 
students, and 33 or more students. Calculations 
exclude classrooms of 50 or more students.The ﬁKﬂ number of students shown in the chart above includes both TK and 
kindergarten numbers.Curriculum & 
Instruction
All professional development opportunities 
at Santa Paula Unified School District are 
aligned to the California State Standards. Staff 
development concentrations are selected and 
identified based upon district initiatives, student 
assessment results, teacher input, state content 
standards, and professional development 
surveys.During the 2018-19 school year, Blanchard 
Elementary provided site-based staff 
development at monthly meetings. Topics 
were centered around the District™s focus for 
staff development identified by the Educational 
Services Department. Training topics included:
Ł Academic Conversations 
Ł Grade Level StandardsŁ Reinforcing Classroom Routines & StructureBlanchard Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
For the 2018-19 school year, Blanchard has 
one K-2 SDC class.  The district houses two 
half-day preschool SDC classes of 3 and 4 
year olds at Blanchard Elementary School. 
Each student is assigned a case manager to 
oversee the implementation of the IEP. Special 
Education services include regular education 
accommodations, speech and language 
services, audiology services, and psychological 
counseling. General education and Special 
Education staff provide support to students 
through a blended, co-teaching model, and/or through a pull-out program to provide core 
instruction. Each student is provided instruction 
based upon their IEP, which is reviewed and 
updated annually by the school™s IEP team. 
The IEP ensures students with disabilities 
have equal access to core curriculum and 
educational opportunities and is designed 
to coordinate specially-designed instruction 
based upon individual academic, social, and/or 
behavioral needs.  
Blanchard Elementary School provides English 
Language Learner (ELL) students with English 
Language Development (ELD) instruction 
within their regular classrooms.  Students are 
grouped by acquisition level for 30 minutes 
daily in kindergarten through second grade 
and 45 minutes daily for students in third 
through fifth grades. English Learner students 
also receive integrated language support 
throughout the day in their core curricular 
areas. Newcomers receive ELD specifically 
designed for their language level by an ELD 
specialist.  
Blanchard Elementary School supports 
intervention programs to meet the needs of 
those students not meeting state proficiency 
standards in language arts by offering one full 
time reading teacher and one part time reading 
teacher to assist with reading, and instructional 
assistants in kindergarten to provide one-to-one and small group instruction to support 
students in their efforts to attain academic 
proficiency in all areas during the first trimester 
of school.  Before school and after school 
reading or math intervention is offered two 
days per week for a six-week period of time for 
those students below proficiency level based 
on district benchmarks and/or CAASPP scores.
2017Yes 
McMillan McGraw Hill - 
Wonders
0%2015Yes 
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt - 
Math Expressions
0%2008NoDelta Foss Science Kits - 
CA Science
0%2007NoPearson Scott Foresman - History/Social Science
0%Science
Social Science
Year 
Adopted
Publisher and Series
Percent of Pupils 
Who Lack Their Own 
Assigned Textbooks 
and/or Instructional 
Materials
From Most 
Recent State 
Adoption?
Textbooks
Reading/Language Arts
Math
All textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Santa Paula Unified School District are currently 
being aligned to the California State Standards. Instructional materials are standards-based and 
approved by the district™s Board of Trustees. The district follows the State Board of Education™s 
adoption cycle for core content materials and for textbook adoptions in foreign language, visual and 
performing arts, and health. 
On September 11, 2019, the Santa Paula Unified School District™s Board of Trustees held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been provided 
to students. The Board of Trustees adopted 
Resolution 2019 - 20:01 Sufficiency of Textbooks or 
Instructional Materials which certifies as required by Education Code §60119 that (1) textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to all students, including English Learners, in the district to 
the extent that each student has a textbook or instructional materials, or both, to use in class and 
to take home, which may include materials in a digital format but shall not include photocopied 
sheets from only a portion of a textbook or instructional materials copied to address a shortage 
(2) all students who are enrolled in the same course within the district, have standards-aligned 
textbooks or instructional materials from the same adoption cycle, 3) sufficient textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to each student, including English Learners, that are aligned 
to the academic content standards and consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum 
frameworks in math, science, history-social science, and English/language arts, including the 
English language development component of an adopted program, and 4) sufficient textbooks or 
instructional materials were provided to each student enrolled in foreign language or health classes, 
and 5) laboratory science equipment was available for science laboratory classes offered in grades 
9-12, inclusive. 
In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in this annual report the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 2019-20 
school year, Santa Paula Unified School District provided all students enrolled in a visual/performing 
arts class with their own instructional materials or supplemental materials to use in class and to take 
home. These materials comply with the state™s content standards and curriculum frameworks.
The Santa Paula Unified School District is using supplemental materials in addition to current 
Science textbooks and History/Social Science textbooks in order to meet State requirements, but 
plans to pilot and adopt textbooks as follows:K-5 History-SS -Pilot/Adoption: 2020-21K-5 Science Œ Pilot/Adoption 2021-22Specialized Instruction
All curriculum and instruction are being aligned to the California State Standards approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every student receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned 
curriculum. The district provides chrome books or iPads to all students as part of a 1:1 technology 
initiative and supports the utilization of google suite to enhance student learning. Blanchard 
Elementary School structures its educational program so that all students receive instruction 
appropriate to their learning level. To ensure the success of every student, teachers use a variety of 
instructional techniques using research-based instructional materials and strategies. 
Blanchard Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Professional Staff
Blanchard Elementary provides professional, 
highly qualified staff that provide additional 
services and support centered on the whole 
student academically, physically, and mentally. 
The Counseling and Support Services table 
in this report illustrates the availability of 
non-instructional support staff to Blanchard 
Elementary™s students. Full-time equivalent (FTE) 
is a standard measurement used to identify an 
employee™s regular work load on a weekly basis. 
For example, an FTE of 1.0 designates a full-time 
position and the employee is on campus and 
available all day every day of the week; an FTE 
of 0.5 indicates that the staff member is available 
and on campus a portion (50%) of the week.
During the 2018-19 school year, Blanchard 
Elementary had 22 teachers who met all 
credential requirements in accordance with state 
guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number 
of teachers at both the school and district who are 
1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total 
teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  Those teachers without a full credential 
include LEA and university internships, pre-internships, emergency or other permits, and waivers.  
The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal 
authorization to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc. 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆˆˆˆ˜˝
˘
ˆˆˆˆ˜˝
˘
ˇˇˇ˚ˇˇ
˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
€˘•ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
SARC Data & Internet 
AccessDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about Blanchard 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.
Parents may access Blanchard Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the Internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries. The closest 
public library to Blanchard Elementary School 
is the Santa Paula Public Library located at 
119 North 8th Street, Santa Paula.
Santa Paula Public LibraryPhone: (805) 525-3615Hours:  Mon., Tues. & Thurs. 12-8 
             Wed. 10-6
             Sat. 10-2; 
             Fri. & Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 7
Printers Available: Yes









Blanchard Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District Expenditures
State law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State 
Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state.For the 2017-18 school year, Santa Paula 
Unified School District spent an average of 
$12,956 of total general funds to educate 
each student (based on 2017-18 audited 
financial statements). The table in this report: 1) 
compares the school™s per pupil expenditures 
from unrestricted (basic) and restricted 
(supplemental) sources with other schools in 
the district and throughout the state, and 2) 
compares the average teacher salary at the 
school site with average teacher salaries at the 
district and state levels. Detailed information 
regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/
ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect the direct cost of 
educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and 
certain other expenditures.)In addition to general fund state funding, Santa Paula Unified School District receives state and 
federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District received 
federal, state, and local aid for the following categorical, Special Education, and support programs:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)Ł Career and Technical Education Programs
Ł California Career Pathways Trust
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł Department of RehabilitationŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Other Local:  Locally DefinedŁ Partnership Academies Program
Ł Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education









