Glen City Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
The National PTA states, ﬁWhen parents and 
educators communicate effectively, positive 
relationships develop, problems are more easily 
solved and students make greater progress.ﬂGlen City™s Parent and Staff Surveys pointed to 
our need to address the challenges of effective 
school-family-community communication.  
Parents, community members and staff are 
all invited to work together to improve their 
understanding of Glen City programs and 
policies, student progress, how they may 
respond effectively to our needs and through 
better communication.Communication will be evident when educators 
and families share information about school 
programs and student progress in varied, clear, 
and productive ways.  Our goal at Glen City 
must be the creation of improved communication 
channels from school-to-home and from home-
to-school.Research indicates that it is the quality of 
teacher/parent interaction that contributes most 
to Student Achievement.  Research recommends 
using the following strategies to improve family/
school communications:Make It Positive: 
 Teachers communicate 
with parents most often when the child 
misbehaves.  We are asking our teachers to 
share positive achievements and your child™s 
progress regularly.  Parents should also ask 
how they can be responsive to the strengths and 
needs of your child.Make It Practical: 
 Ask and look for 
resources to understand the curriculum and 
California Common Core Standards.  Be 
specific when communicating concerns with 
teachers and administrators.  Ask for specific 
suggestions about what you can do to help your 
child in challenging areas.  Talk with your child 
daily about their school work and monitor their 
homework.Make It Personal:   Parents can request 
information regarding teacher qualifications. 
I am proud to say all of our Glen City teachers 
and paraprofessionals are ﬁHighly Qualified.ﬂ    
Communicate in person, via email, notes and/or phones calls with any questions, concerns or 
praises.  Ask for information about your child™s 
individual test scores, assessment data and 
samples of work.Please join with us to make Glen City 
Elementary School the Best It Can Be!District & School 
Description
DistrictSanta Paula Unified School District is located 
in the city of Santa Paula, a small historical 
community serving approximately 30,000 
residents within a 4.6 square-mile radius 
surrounded by rolling hills, avocado, and citrus 
groves. Santa Paula City is approximately 65 
miles northwest of Los Angeles and 14 miles 
east of Ventura. Santa Paula Unified School 
District operates six elementary schools, 
one middle school, one comprehensive high 
school and one continuation high school all 
nestled against the city™s foothills. During the 
2018-19 school year, the District served 5,270 
students in grades TK-12. The demographic 
composition of the student body included 
13.6% students identified with a disability, 
35.8% qualifying for English learner support, 
88.6% enrolled in the Free or Reduced Price 
Meal program, 1.4% migrant, 0.1% foster 
youth, and 9.6% homeless youth.District Vision & 
MissionVision:
The Santa Paula Unified School District 
provides exemplary learning environments 
for all students to be prepared to successfully 
contribute to a diverse global society.
Mission:The Santa Paula Unified School District, in 
collaboration with educators, parents, and 
community, will prepare students academically, 
emotionally and socially for college, careers, 
global citizenship, and lifelong learning.  At 
each grade level, all students are provided 
diverse and differentiated experiences and 
learning opportunities by a highly skilled 
educational team in a safe and supportive 
learning environment.Glen City Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Core Values:
The Santa Paula Unified School District Board 
of Trustees strongly value and believe that 

our students need to be prepared for the 21st 

Century.  Consequently, the District™s core 

values reflect a commitment to:Łimproving student academic performance
Łproviding safe and healthy schools



Łpromoting stakeholder input
Łfostering a positive district culture
Educating our students and supporting the 
school community is our responsibility!During the 2018-19 school year, Glen City 

Elementary served 571 students in grades TK-

5.Student enrollment included 58% qualifying

for English learner support, 14.2% students
identified with a disability, 90.2% enrolled in the

Free or Reduced Price Meal program, 1.1%
migrant, and 10.9% homeless youth.The ﬁKindergartenﬂ number of students shown in the chart above includes both 
TK and kindergarten numbers.Local Control 
Accountability Plan 

(LCAP)
As part of the Local Control Funding Formula, 
school districts are required to develop, adopt, 

and annually update a three-year Local Control 

and Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 

components of this SARC address some of the 

priorities identified in the District™s LCAP:
State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł Degree to which teachers are appropriatelyassigned and fully credentialed in the
subject area and for the pupils they are
teaching;ŁPupils have access to standards-aligned
instructional materials; and School facilities
are maintained in good repair.State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of 

Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
ŁEfforts the school district makes to seekparent input in making decisions for the schooldistrict and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 

Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł Statewide assessments (i.e., California Assessment of Student Performance 
and Progress [CAASPP] System, which 

includes the Smarter Balanced Summative

Assessments for students in the general
education population and the California 

Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for English

language arts/literacy [ELA] and mathematics
given in grades three through eight and grade
eleven. Only eligible students may participate

in the administration of the CAAs. CAAs
items are aligned with alternate achievement
standards, which are linked with the Common
Core State Standards [CCSS] for students
with the most significant cognitive disabilities);Ł The percentage of students who have successfully completed courses that 

satisfy the requirements for entrance to the
University of California and the California
State University, or career technical education

sequences or programs of study.
ŁThe percentage of students who have
successfully completed courses that satisfy the requirements for entrance to the
University of California and the California
State University, or career technical education

sequences or programs of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
ŁHigh school dropout rates; andŁHigh school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:ŁPupil suspension rates;ŁPupil expulsion rates; andŁOther local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access (Conditions of 
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes (Pupil 

Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
ŁPupil outcomes in the subject area of
physical education.Parent Involvement
Parents are encouraged to get involved in 
their child™s learning environment either by 

volunteering in the classroom, participating in 

a decision-making group, or simply attending 

school events.Opportunities to Volunteer
Chaperone Field Trips

Classroom Helper
Fundraising ActivitiesCommitteesEnglish Learner Advisory Council

District English Learner Advisory Council 
    (DELAC)
Migrant Parent District Advisory Committee 
    (MPDAC)
Parent District Advisory Committee (PDAC)

Parent Teacher Association (PTA)

School Site Council
Back to School Carnival
Back to School Night
Family Literacy Night
Family Movie Night
Family Science Night
Book Character Parade
Monthly Coffee Chats

Parent Appreciation Assembly & Breakfast

Senior Walk

Spring Carnival
Student Recognition Assemblies
Winter & Spring PerformancesParents stay informed on upcoming events and 
school activities through the school website, 

social media (Facebook & Instagram), flyers, 

monthly coffee chat, monthly calendar and 

Blackboard Connect. Contact the principal or 

the school office at (805) 933-8850 for more 

information on how to become involved in your 

child™s learning environment.
Student Achievement

Santa Paula Unified School District utilizes 
districtwide interim assessments that are 

aligned to the Common Core State Standards.  

These assessments are used to evaluate 

instructional programs and measure student 

proficiency of all students in math and language 

arts.  Test results are used to 1) help teachers 

identify areas where instruction may or may 

not be effective, 2) analyze and readjust 

curriculum maps, 3) identify concepts that need 

to be retaught in the classroom, 4) plan in-class 

lessons, and 5) identify students who need 

targeted academic assistance or intervention.




Glen City Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
In the spring of each year, Glen City Elementary 
is required by the state to administer a physical 

fitness test to all students in the fifth grade. The 

physical fitness test measures each student™s 

ability to complete six fitness tasks in six major 

areas. Students that either meet or exceed 

the standards in five of six fitness areas are 

considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy 

fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative district and state 

results can be found at the CDE™s website 

www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/. 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ


ˇ˛˙
ˇ
˚˚˙ˆ

ˆ˚˙ˆ
˜˚˛˛ˇ˙
˝˚
ˇ˙
˜˛˘˛˚
˚ˆ
˚

˙
˙˘
ˇ˙˘ˇ˘
˚
˛ˆ˚˛ˇ˝
†“
ˇ˙
ˇˆ˚ˇˆ
˝
˛ˇ
˚
‘’š

˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘
˚

ˆ˚˙ˆ

˚˚ˆ˙˘
˛
˝˚˚˙˘
˚
ˆˇˆ
˚
ˆˇ˙ˇ˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˝˘
šššššššššššššššššššš€’ˆˆ•˝˛’˘˚


‡…’˛
šššššššššššššššššššš˜—˚ˆˆ–
šššššššššššššššššššš’˝˙˙ƒˆ⁄’˝˘˛


ˇ˘›˙’…ˆ


˛ˆ—’˛…ˆ⁄’˙’˛’


˛ˆ–’˘›ˆ’˝˘˛ˆˇ˝˛’˚˘ˆ‹’
šš
šš
šš
šššššššššššššš˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆ
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙˛˙˙ˇ˘˙
“˙ˇ˙˚˘•










The California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System includes 
the Smarter Balanced Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students in the general education 

population, and the California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for students with the most significant 

cognitive disabilities.  Only eligible students may participate in the administration of the CAAs.  

CAAs items are aligned with alternative achievement standards, which are linked with the Common 

Core State Standards (CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of how well students are mastering 

California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to 

grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/

Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test 

items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core 

State Standards (CCSS). 
The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown 

only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 

in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the 

California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
Glen City Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
On an annual basis, schools are required by the 
state to perform a comprehensive inspection and 
report those findings to the school community. 
The most recent inspection for Glen City 
Elementary School took place on August 19, 
2019. The School Facility Good Repair Status 
table illustrated in this report identifies the state-
required inspection areas and discloses the 
operational status in each of those areas. During 
the 2018-19 school year, 100% of restrooms 
were fully operational and available to students 
at all times.The Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for Glen City Elementary in 
collaboration with local agencies and the district 
office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 requirements. 
Components of this plan include child abuse 
reporting procedures, teacher notification of 
dangerous pupil procedures, disaster response 
procedures, procedures for safe arrival and 
departure from school, sexual harassment 
policy, dress code policy, and bully prevention 
policy. The school™s most current safety plan was 
reviewed, updated and shared with school staff 
in fall 2019.Supervision & SafetySchool administration and teaching staff place 
a high priority on providing adequate adult 
supervision on campus before, during, and after 
school. As students arrive on campus each 
morning, teachers are strategically assigned to 
designated entrance areas and the playground, 
and the campus supervisor monitors student 
activity while at breakfast in the cafeteria. 
During recess teachers monitor playground 
activity. Campus supervisors monitor lunch time 
activity while students are in the cafeteria and 
on the playground.  At the end of the day when 
School Facilities & 
Safety
Glen City Elementary School provides a safe, 
clean environment for learning through proper 
facilities maintenance and campus supervision. 
Original school buildings were constructed in 
1955; ongoing maintenance ensures school 
facilities are kept safe and in good working 
condition, and continue to provide adequate 
space for students and staff. A work order 
process is used by school and district staff 
to communicate non-routine maintenance 
requests. Emergency repairs are given the 
highest priority. 
2018-19 through 2019-20 Campus Repair or  
Improvement Projects:Ł Installation of new A/C units throughout   
campus (bond project)Ł Installation of a camera and buzzer system 
at school entranceŁ Installation of two TV™s in the cafeteria for 
presentationsŁ Painting of a school muralŁ Installation of a new school marqueeŁ Installation of a security entrance fence 
near the front of the schoolŁ Air conditioning projectsEvery morning before school begins, the 
custodian inspects facilities for safety hazards 
or other conditions that need attention prior to 
students and staff entering school grounds. 
One day custodian, two afternoon (one full-time and one part-time) custodians, and one 
part-time evening custodian are assigned 
to Glen City Elementary. The day/afternoon 
custodians are responsible for:Ł Lunch area setup and cleaningŁ Office area cleaning
Ł Restroom cleaningŁ Trash removal
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout 
the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The evening custodians 
are responsible for:Ł Classroom cleaningŁ Kitchen cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff daily concerning maintenance and school 
safety issues.


students are dismissed, teachers monitor 
student dismissal to ensure a safe and orderly 
departure. 
Many individuals visit the campus as 
volunteers or to participate in school events. 
To maintain a safe and secure environment, all 
parents and visitors are required to check in at 
the school office upon arrival, obtain and wear 
a visitor™s badge, and then return to the school 
office upon departure.
Santa 
deferred maintenance money to fund the 
repairs or replacement of existing school 
building components which typically include 

conditioning, electrical systems, interior/ exterior 
During the 2018-19 school year, Santa Paula 

deferred maintenance funds for the following 
projects at Glen City Elementary School:Ł Termite repairs
Ł Toilet partitions
Ł Flooring upgradesClassroom 
Environment


GATE students in grades three through five will 
receive differentiated instruction.
Glen City Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Glen City School believes in recognizing students for academic success, responsible behavior, 
perfect attendance and service to our site and community.  Certificates, ribbons, prizes, and various 
other awards are given to students at assemblies and special presentations throughout the school 
year.  Students can earn Grizzly bucks for being safe, respectful and responsible.  These Grizzly 
bucks can be used at the Grizzly store.Discipline & Climate for LearningStudents at Glen City Elementary School are guided by specific rules and classroom expectations 
that promote respect, cooperation, courtesy, and acceptance of others.  The school™s discipline 
philosophy promotes a safe school, a warm, friendly classroom environment, and demonstrates that 
good discipline is a solid foundation on which to build an effective school.
The goal of Glen City Elementary School™s staff is to provide students with opportunities to learn 
self-discipline through a system of consistent rewards and consequences for their behavior.  
Parents and students are informed of discipline policies at the beginning of each school year when 
they sign Glen City Elementary School™s ﬁFamily-School Compactﬂ and through classroom visits by 
the administrators.  Glen City™s staff is focused on establishing relationships with students to support 
academic and behavior needs.˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˛˜˘˝˜
˜˛˛˘˝
˛˛˙˘˝
˙˛˝˘˝˙˜
˛˙˘˝˜
˛˙˘˝˜
ˇ˛˛˘˝˜
˜˛˜˘˝˜˙
˛˛˝˘˝˛˛
˙˛˝˘˝˜
˝
˙˛˜˘˝˜
ˇ˛˛˘˝˜
˜˛˛˘˝
˛˛˛˘˝˜˙
˙˝
˙˝˜
˛˙˘˝˜˙







‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝


2017-18
0 days
2018-19
0 days
2019-20
0 days
 English Language Arts: Wonders Curriculum
   Exploration, English Language Development & Writing
   Instruction
 Science: Building Awareness, Instructional Model &
   Hands on Examples
 Mathematics: Instructional Routines, Building Number
  Sense & Math Learning Walks
Number of School Days/Topics Dedicated to Staff 
Development & Continuous Improvement
 Pacing Guides Training
 ELD Standards Training
 Report Card Training
 Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS)
 Engaging English Learners
 Formative Assessments
 Literably Online Assessment Pilot
 Picture Perfect Science
 Curriculum Advisory Team (CAT) 
 1 to 1 Initiative (Technology)
 Curriculum Advisory Team (CAT) 
 ELA
 ELD
 Lesson Planning & Observation
 Lesson Study
 Literably Online Assessment
 Mathematics
 Next Generation Science Standards
 Picture Perfect Science
 Technology
 Writing
Santa Paula Unified School District supports 
new teachers in developing their teaching skills 
and earning a Professional Clear Teaching 
Credential. The district™s New Teacher 
Induction Consortium, formerly known as the 
Beginning Teacher Support and Assessment 
(BTSA) program, is designed for first- and 
second-year teachers to receive structured 
guidance and support from experienced 
teachers over a two-year period. 
Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. 
New teachers, experienced teachers, 
mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and 
support staff are encouraged to participate in 
workshops sponsored by the Ventura County 
Office of Education. Special education staff 
participate in local and county sponsored 
professional training activities throughout 
the school year. Classified support staff may 
receive additional job-related training from 
the county office of education. All classified 
staff participate in county- and district-
sponsored training sessions addressing 
sexual harassment, sexual molestation, and 
ergonomics.Class Size DistributionThe Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students. 
Calculations exclude classrooms of 50 or more 
students.The ﬁKﬂ number of students shown in the chart above includes both TK and 
kindergarten numbers.Curriculum & 
Instruction
Staff DevelopmentAll professional development opportunities 
at Santa Paula Unified School District are 
aligned to the California State Standards. Staff 
development concentrations are selected and 
identified based upon district initiatives, student 
assessment results, teacher input, state content 
standards, and professional development 
surveys.During the 2018-19 school year, Glen 
City Elementary provided site-based staff 
development after school at staff meetings. 
Topics were centered around the District™s 
focus for staff development identified by the 
Educational Services Department. Training 
topics included:Ł Common Core State StandardsŁ Data AnalysisŁ English Learner Development (ELD)Ł Instructional StrategiesŁ School SafetyDuring the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 
provided the following staff development training:
Glen City Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Instructional MaterialsAll textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Santa Paula Unified School District are 
currently being aligned to the California State Standards. Instructional materials are standards-
based and approved by the district™s Board of Trustees. The district follows the State Board of 
Education™s adoption cycle for core content materials and for textbook adoptions in foreign 
language, visual and performing arts, and health. 
On September 11, 2019, the Santa Paula Unified School District™s Board of Trustees held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been provided 
to students. The Board of Trustees adopted 
Resolution 2019 - 20:01 Sufficiency of Textbooks or 
Instructional Materials which certifies as required by Education Code §60119 that (1) textbooks 
and instructional materials were provided to all students, including English Learners, in the district 
to the extent that each student has a textbook or instructional materials, or both, to use in class 
and to take home, which may include materials in a digital format but shall not include photocopied 
sheets from only a portion of a textbook or instructional materials copied to address a shortage 
(2) all students who are enrolled in the same course within the district, have standards-aligned 
textbooks or instructional materials from the same adoption cycle, 3) sufficient textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to each student, including English Learners, that are aligned 
to the academic content standards and consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum 
frameworks in math, science, history-social science, and English/language arts, including the 
English language development component of an adopted program, and 4) sufficient textbooks 
or instructional materials were provided to each student enrolled in foreign language or health 
classes, and 5) laboratory science equipment was available for science laboratory classes offered 
in grades 9-12, inclusive. 
In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in this annual report the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 2019-
20 school year, Santa Paula Unified School District provided all students enrolled in a visual/
performing arts class with their own instructional materials or supplemental materials to use in 
class and to take home. These materials comply with the state™s content standards and curriculum 
frameworks.The Santa Paula Unified School District is using supplemental materials in addition to current 
Science textbooks and History/Social Science textbooks in order to meet State requirements, but 
plans to pilot and adopt textbooks as follows:K-5 History-SS -Pilot/Adoption: 2020-21K-5 Science Œ Pilot/Adoption 2021-22Specialized Instruction
All curriculum and instruction are being aligned to the California State Standards approved by 
the State Board of Education. Every student receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned curriculum. The district provides chrome books or iPads to all students as part of a 1:1 
technology initiative and supports the utilization of google suite to enhance student learning. Glen 
City Elementary School structures its educational program so that all students receive instruction 
appropriate to their learning level. To ensure the success of every student, teachers use a variety 
of instructional techniques using research-based instructional materials and strategies. 
Special Education students are mainstreamed into the general education classroom based upon 
their IEP (Individual Education Plan) and provided instruction in the least restrictive environment. 
Each student is assigned a case manager to oversee the implementation of the IEP. Special 
Education services include regular education accommodations, speech and language services, 
audiology services, and psychological counseling. General education and Special Education staff 
provide support to students through a blended, 
co-teaching model to provide core instruction. 
Each student is provided instruction based upon 
their IEP, which is reviewed and updated annually 
by the school™s IEP team. The IEP ensures 
students with disabilities have equal access to 
core curriculum and educational opportunities 
and is designed to coordinate specially-designed 
instruction based upon individual academic, 
social, and/or behavioral needs.  
Glen City Elementary School provides English 
Language Learner (ELL) students with English 
Language Development (ELD) instruction  based 
on their language proficiency level.  Students 
are grouped by acquisition level for 30 minutes 
daily in kindergarten through second grade and 
45 minutes daily for students in third through fifth 
grades. English Learner students also receive 
integrated language support throughout the day 
in their core curricular areas.   
Glen City Elementary School supports 
intervention programs to meet the needs of those 
students not meeting state proficiency standards 
in language arts and math by offering after 
school intervention classes, and three Reading 
Teachers (two full-time and one part-time) to 
assist with reading. 
Professional Staff
Support Services StaffGlen City Elementary provides professional, 
highly qualified staff that provide additional 
services and support centered on the whole 
student academically, physically, and mentally. 
The Counseling and Support Services table 
in this report illustrates the availability of 
non-instructional support staff to Glen City 
Elementary™s students. Full-time equivalent 
(FTE) is a standard measurement used to 
identify an employee™s regular work load on 
a weekly basis. For example, an FTE of 1.0 
designates a full-time position and the employee 
is on campus and available all day every day of 
the week; an FTE of 0.5 indicates that the staff 
member is available and on campus a portion 
(50%) of the week.







2017Yes 
McMillan McGraw Hill - 
Wonders
0%2015Yes 
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt - 
Math Expressions
0%2008NoDelta Foss Science Kits - 
CA Science
0%2007NoPearson Scott Foresman - History/Social Science
0%Science
Social Science
Year 
Adopted
Publisher and Series
Percent of Pupils 
Who Lack Their Own 
Assigned Textbooks 
and/or Instructional 
Materials
From Most 
Recent State 
Adoption?
Textbooks
Reading/Language Arts
Math
Glen City Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card

During the 2018-19 school year, Glen City Elementary had 29 teachers who met all credential 
requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number of teachers 
at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 3) teaching 
outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total teacher 
misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  Those teachers without a full credential include 
LEA and university internships, pre-internships, emergency or other permits, and waivers.  The term 
ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal authorization to 
teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.State law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State 
Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state.For the 2017-18 school year, Santa Paula 
Unified School District spent an average of 

student (based on 2017-18 audited financial 
statements). The table in this report: 1) 
compares the school™s per pupil expenditures 
from unrestricted (basic) and restricted 
(supplemental) sources with other schools in the district and throughout the state, and 2) compares 
the average teacher salary at the school site with average teacher salaries at the district and state 
levels. Detailed information regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE website 
at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below 
reflect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition 
and construction, and certain other expenditures.)˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆ˙
˘
ˆ˙
˘
˜ˇˇ˚ˇˇ
˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
€˘•ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
–

In addition to general fund state funding, Santa 
Paula Unified School District receives state 
and federal categorical funding for special 
programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the 
District received federal, state, and local aid for 
the following categorical, Special Education, 
and support programs:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)Ł Career and Technical Education Programs
Ł California Career Pathways Trust
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant 
ProgramŁ Department of RehabilitationŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Other Local:  Locally DefinedŁ Partnership Academies Program
Ł Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
SARC Data & Internet 
AccessDataQuestDataQuest is an online data tool located 
at http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that 
contains additional information about Glen 
City Elementary School and comparisons of 
the school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.
LocationParents may access Glen City Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the Internet at 
any of the county™s public libraries. The closest 
public library to Glen City Elementary School is 
the Santa Paula Public Library located at 119 
North 8th Street, Santa Paula.Santa Paula Public LibraryPhone: (805) 525-3615Hours:  Mon., Tues. & Thurs. 12-8 
             Wed. 10-6
             Sat. 10-2; 
             Fri. & Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 7
Printers Available: Yes









Glen City Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
