Thelma Bedell Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
Through the Local Control Accountability Plan  
(LCAP) District employees, parents, students, 
and community members met to develop 
a clear vision, mission and goals to ensure 
student success in the 21st Century. The 
District has narrowed the plan into four main 
goals:  1)  Increase academic achievement at 
all grade levels; 2) Increase parent involvement 
and student engagement through enrichment 
opportunities; 3) Increase graduation rates 
and reduce suspension rates; and 4) Create 
a welcoming and efficient school climate for 
students, parents, and staff.
District & School 
Description
Santa Paula Unified School District is located 
in the city of Santa Paula, a small historical 
community serving approximately 30,000 
residents within a 4.6 square-mile radius 
surrounded by rolling hills, avocado, and citrus 
groves. Santa Paula City is approximately 65 
miles northwest of Los Angeles and 14 miles 
east of Ventura. Santa Paula Unified School 
District operates six elementary schools, 
one middle school, one comprehensive high 
school and one continuation high school all 
nestled against the city™s foothills. During the 
2018-19 school year, the District served 5,270 
students in grades TK-12. The demographic 
composition of the student body included 
13.6% students identified with a disability, 
35.8% qualifying for English learner support, 
88.6% enrolled in the Free or Reduced Price 
Meal program, 1.4% migrant, 0.1% foster 
youth, and 9.6% homeless youth.District Vision & 
Mission
The Santa Paula Unified School District provides 
exemplary learning environments for all students 
to be prepared to successfully contribute to a 
diverse global society.
The Santa Paula Unified School District, in 
collaboration with educators, parents, and 
community, will prepare students academically, 
emotionally and socially for college, careers, 
global citizenship, and lifelong learning.  At each 
grade level, all students are provided diverse 
and differentiated experiences and learning 
opportunities by a highly skilled educational team 
in a safe and supportive learning environment.
The Santa Paula Unified School District Board 
of Trustees strongly value and believe that 
our students need to be prepared for the 21st 
Century.  Consequently, the District™s core values 
reflect a commitment to:Ł  improving student academic performanceŁ  providing safe and healthy schoolsŁ  promoting stakeholder inputŁ  fostering a positive district cultureEducating our students and supporting the school 
community is our responsibility!
During the 2018-19 school year, Thelma Bedell 
Elementary served 268 students in grades TK-
5. Student enrollment included 33.2% qualifying 
for English learner support, 13.1% students 
identified with a disability, 77.2% enrolled in the 
Free or Reduced Price Meal program, and 4.5% 
homeless youth. 
Thelma Bedell Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
The ﬁKindergartenﬂ number of students shown in the chart above includes both 
TK and kindergarten numbers.Local Control 
Accountability Plan 
(LCAP)
As part of the Local Control Funding Formula, 
school districts are required to develop, adopt, 
and annually update a three-year Local Control 
and Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 
components of this SARC address some of the 
priorities identified in the District™s LCAP:
State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł  
Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area and for the pupils they are 
teaching;Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and School facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of 
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł  
Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance 
and Progress [CAASPP] System, which 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general 
education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for English 
language arts/literacy [ELA] and mathematics 
given in grades three through eight and grade 
eleven. Only eligible students may participate 
in the administration of the CAAs. CAAs 
items are aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the Common 
Core State Standards [CCSS] for students 
with the most significant cognitive disabilities);  
Ł  
The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the California 
State University, or career technical education 
sequences or programs of study.
Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the California 
State University, or career technical education 
sequences or programs of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł High school dropout rates; andŁ High school graduation ratesState Priority 6: School Climate (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension rates;Ł Pupil expulsion rates; andŁ Other local measures on the sense of safetyState Priority 7: Course Access (Conditions of 
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes (Pupil 
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Pupil outcomes in the subject area of physical 
educationParent Involvement
Parents are encouraged to get involved in 
their child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating in 
a decision-making group, or simply attending 
school events.
Chaperone Field Trips
Classroom HelperEvent Volunteer
Fundraising ActivitiesGarden Volunteer
Library Helper



English Learner Advisory Council (ELAC)
Parent District Advisory Committee (PDAC)
District English Learner Advisory Council 
(DELAC)LCAP Committee
PFO - Friends of Thelma Bedell
School Site Council
Back to School NightDr. Seuss Day
Family Science NightFood FundraiserGold Rush DayGrade Level Study Trips
Open HouseNeighborhood Watch
Parent Education NightsSpelling BeeSpring EventStudent Recognition Assemblies
Parents stay informed on upcoming events 
and school activities through email, letters, 
newsletters, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter 
(https://twitter.com/BedellBulldogs), the school 
marquee, banners at the school site and 
EdConnect. The Bedell website contains all 
current calendar information as well as many 
useful links. Contact the principal or the school 
office at (805) 933-8951 for more information 
on how to become involved in your child™s 
learning environment.Student Achievement

Santa Paula Unified School District utilizes 
districtwide interim assessments that are 
aligned to the Common Core State Standards.  
These assessments are used to evaluate 
instructional programs and measure student 
proficiency of all students in math and 
language arts.  Test results are used to 1) 
help teachers identify areas where instruction 
may or may not be effective, 2) analyze and 
readjust curriculum maps, 3) identify concepts 
that need to be retaught in the classroom, 4) 
plan in-class lessons, and 5) identify students 
who need targeted academic assistance or 
intervention.

The California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) 
System includes the Smarter Balanced 
Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students 
in the general education population, and the 
California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for 
students with the most significant cognitive 
disabilities.  Only eligible students may 
participate in the administration of the CAAs.  
CAAs items are aligned with alternative 
Thelma Bedell Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ



ˇ

˜˚˙
˝˚
˜˛
ˆ

˙

ˆ˚˛ˇ

˝
˙
‘˛
’š€

˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘
˚


˝˚
ˇˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’˙˝šˆ˚˝˘ˆ˝˘
••••••••••••••••••••‡ˆˆ—˝˛


–˛


˝˙˙⁄ˆ‹˝˘˛


ˇƒˆ


˛ˆ‰˛ƒˆ‹˛


˜˚˚˛˝˝˙ˆ
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙˛
˙˙ˇ˘˙
“˙ˇ˙˚˘•








School Facilities & 
Safety
Thelma Bedell Elementary School provides a 
safe, clean environment for learning through 

proper facilities maintenance and campus 

supervision. Original school buildings were 

constructed in 1961; ongoing maintenance 

ensures school facilities are kept safe and 

in good working condition, and continue to 

provide adequate space for students and 

staff.  A work order process is used by school 

and district staff to communicate non-routine 

maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are 

given the highest priority.  
2018-19 through 2019-20 Campus  Repair or 
Improvement Projects:ŁElectrical upgrade projectŁInstallation of new roller blinds throughoutthe campusŁPaving replacement projectŁHVAC upgrade projectŁDrain repairs - water mitigationEvery morning before school begins, the principal and the custodian inspect facilities for 

safety hazards or other conditions that need 

attention prior to students and staff entering 

school grounds. One day custodian and one 

evening custodian are assigned to Thelma 

Bedell Elementary. The day custodian is 

responsible for:ŁLunch area setup and cleaningŁOffice area cleaningŁRestroom cleaningŁTrash removalRestrooms are checked regularly throughout 
the day for cleanliness and subsequently 

cleaned as needed. The evening custodian is 

responsible for:ŁClassroom cleaningŁRestroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial staff daily concerning maintenance and school 
safety issues.achievement standards, which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS).  

CAASPP results are a measure of how well students are mastering California™s standards in English 

language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and 

grade eleven. SBAC tests assess student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing 

computer-adaptive tests and performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative 

achievement standards which are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). 
The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown 

only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 

in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the 

California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
In the spring of each year, Thelma Bedell 

Elementary is required by the state to administer 

a physical fitness test to all students in the fifth 

grade. The physical fitness test measures each 

student™s ability to complete six fitness tasks in 

six major areas. Students that either meet or 

exceed the standards in five of six fitness areas 

are considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy 

fitness zone.ﬂ Comparative district and state 

results can be found at the CDE™s website www.

cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/pf/. 
Thelma Bedell Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card


Qualified Gifted and Talented Education 
(GATE) students receive differentiated learning 
opportunities throughout the regular classroom 
day. Additionally, GATE students are incited 
to join the GATE club in the spring to work on 
special projects after school.  
Thelma Bedell Elementary School recognizes 
students for their achievement every trimester 
by giving out certificates, ribbons, prizes, and 
various other awards at student recognition 
assemblies.
Students at Thelma Bedell Elementary School 
are guided by specific rules and classroom 
expectations that promote respect, cooperation, 
courtesy, and acceptance of others.  The 
school™s discipline philosophy promotes a safe 
school, a warm, friendly classroom environment, 
and demonstrates that good discipline is a solid 
foundation on which to build an effective school.
Positive behavior in and out of the classroom 
is recognized and rewarded on a regular basis. 
Students earn ﬁBedell Bucks,ﬂ which can be 
traded in for prizes at the end of each trimester.
The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by grade 
level, the average class size, and the number 
of classes that contain 1-20 students, 21-32 
students, and 33 or more students. Calculations 
exclude classrooms of 50 or more students.visitors are required to check in at the school 
office upon arrival, obtain and wear a visitor™s 
badge, and then return to the school office upon 
departure.
deferred maintenance money to fund the repairs 
or replacement of existing school building 
components which typically include projects such 

electrical systems, interior/ exterior painting and 
During the 2018-19 school year, Santa Paula 
Unified School District allocated $126,745 of 
deferred maintenance funds for the following 
projects at Thelma Bedell Elementary School:
Ł Window replacement / window shadesŁ Ł Casework repairsClassroom Environment

Students are encouraged to participate in the 
school™s additional academic and extracurricular 
activities that are an integral part of the 
educational program.  Students may participate 
in the ASPIRE Program which provides 
homework time and enrichment activities such 
as reading, computers, creative writing, math, 
sports, arts and crafts, self-esteem building 
activities, drug abuse awareness activities, 
games and recreation.  The STAR Nova 
program offers after school STEAM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering, Art/Agriculture and 
Math) classes throughout the year.
On an annual basis, schools are required 
by the state to perform a comprehensive 
inspection and report those findings to the 
school community. The most recent inspection 
for Thelma Bedell Elementary School took 
place on August 13, 2019. The School Facility 
Good Repair Status table illustrated in this 
report identifies the state-required inspection 
areas and discloses the operational status in 
each of those areas. During the 2018-19 school 
year, 100% of restrooms were fully operational 
and available to students at all times.The Comprehensive School Site Safety Plan 
was developed for Thelma Bedell Elementary 
in collaboration with local agencies and 
the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 
requirements. Components of this plan include 
child abuse reporting procedures, teacher 
notification of dangerous pupil procedures, 
disaster response procedures, procedures for 
safe arrival and departure from school, sexual 
harassment policy, dress code policy, and bully 
prevention policy. The school™s most current 
safety plan was reviewed, updated and shared 
with school staff in fall 2019.
School administration and teaching staff place 
a high priority on providing adequate adult 
supervision on campus before, during, and 
after school. As students arrive on campus 
each morning, the principal and teachers are 
strategically assigned to designated entrance 
areas and the playground, and noon duty staff 
monitor student activity while at breakfast in 
the cafeteria. During recess teachers monitor 
playground activity. Noon duty staff monitor 
lunch time activity while students are in the 
cafeteria, and noon duty supervisors monitor 
activity on the playground.  At the end of the 
day a Bedell staff member coordinates and 
assists students being picked up by car in the 
school parking lot. 
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain a 
safe and secure environment, all parents and 





Thelma Bedell Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
The ﬁKindergartenﬂ number of students shown in the chart above includes both 
TK and kindergarten numbers.Curriculum & 
Instruction
All professional development opportunities at 
Santa Paula Unified School District are being 
aligned to the California State Standards. Staff 
development concentrations are selected 
and identified based upon district initiatives, 
student assessment results, teacher input, 
state content standards, and professional 
development surveys.During the 2018-19 school year, Thelma 
Bedell Elementary provided site-based staff 
development after school at staff meetings. 
Topics were centered around the District™s 
focus for staff development identified by the 
Educational Services Department. Training 
topics included:Ł CAASPP/SBAC - Data Analysis
Ł Safety Preparation / Training
During the 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 
District provided the following staff development 
training:2017-18
0 days
2018-19
0 days
2019-20
0 days
 English Language Arts: Wonders Curriculum
   Exploration, English Language Development & Writing
   Instruction
 Science: Building Awareness, Instructional Model &
   Hands on Examples
 Mathematics: Instructional Routines, Building Number
  Sense & Math Learning Walks
Number of School Days/Topics Dedicated to Staff 
Development & Continuous Improvement
 Pacing Guides Training
 ELD Standards Training
 Report Card Training
 Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS)
 Engaging English Learners
 Formative Assessments
 Literably Online Assessment Pilot
 Picture Perfect Science
 Curriculum Advisory Team (CAT) 
 1 to 1 Initiative (Technology)
 Curriculum Advisory Team (CAT) 
 ELA
 ELD
 Lesson Planning & Observation
 Lesson Study
 Literably Online Assessment
 Mathematics
 Next Generation Science Standards
 Picture Perfect Science
 Technology
 Writing
Santa Paula Unified School District supports 
new teachers in developing their teaching skills 
and earning a Professional Clear Teaching 
Credential. The district™s New Teacher Induction 
Consortium, formerly known as the Beginning 
Teacher Support and Assessment (BTSA) 
program, is designed for first- and second-year 
teachers to receive structured guidance and 
support from experienced teachers over a two-
year period. 
Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. 
New teachers, experienced teachers, mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and support 
staff are encouraged to participate in workshops 
2017Yes 
McMillan McGraw Hill - 
Wonders
0%2015Yes 
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt - 
Math Expressions
0%2008NoDelta Foss Science Kits - 
CA Science
0%2007NoPearson Scott Foresman - History/Social Science
0%Science
Social Science
Year 
Adopted
Publisher and Series
Percent of Pupils 
Who Lack Their Own 
Assigned Textbooks 
and/or Instructional 
Materials
From Most 
Recent State 
Adoption?
Textbooks
Reading/Language Arts
Math
˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝
˜˝˛˜
˛˝˜˛
˙˝˜˛
˝˙
˝
˛ˇ˝
˜˝˙
˛˝˛
˙˝˜˜
˝
˛˝
˛ˇ˝˙
˜˝
˜˛˝˜˛
˙˝˛
˝
˛˝˜˜
˝˜
˛˝˜˘˚

˜˘



†
‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
sponsored by the Ventura County Office of 
Education. Special education staff participate 
in local and county sponsored professional 
training activities throughout the school year. 
Classified support staff may receive additional 
job-related training from the county office 
of education. All classified staff participate 
in county- and district-sponsored training 
sessions addressing sexual harassment, 
sexual molestation, and ergonomics.All textbooks used in the core curriculum 
throughout Santa Paula Unified School District 
are currently being aligned to the California 
State Standards. Instructional materials are 
standards-based and approved by the district™s 
Board of Trustees. The district follows the State 
Board of Education™s adoption cycle for core 
content materials and for textbook adoptions 
in foreign language, visual and performing arts, 
and health.On September 11, 2019, the Santa Paula 
Unified School District™s Board of Trustees 
held a public hearing to certify the extent to 
which textbooks and instructional materials 
have been provided to students. The Board 
of Trustees adopted 
Resolution 2019 - 20:01 
Sufficiency of Textbooks or Instructional 
Materials which certifies as required by 
Education Code §60119 that (1) textbooks 
and instructional materials were provided to 
all students, including English Learners, in the 
district to the extent that each student has a 
textbook or instructional materials, or both, 
to use in class and to take home, which may 
include materials in a digital format but shall 
not include photocopied sheets from only a 
portion of a textbook or instructional materials 
copied to address a shortage (2) all students 
who are enrolled in the same course within the 
district, have standards-aligned textbooks or 
instructional materials from the same adoption 
cycle, 3) sufficient textbooks and instructional 
materials were provided to each student, 
including English Learners, that are aligned to 
the academic content standards and consistent 
with the cycles and content of the curriculum 
frameworks in math, science, history-social 
science, and English/language arts, including 
the English language development component 
Thelma Bedell Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
of an adopted program, and 4) sufficient textbooks or instructional materials were provided to each 
student enrolled in foreign language or health classes, and 5) laboratory science equipment was 
available for science laboratory classes offered in grades 9-12, inclusive. 
In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in this annual report the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 2019-20 
school year, Santa Paula Unified School District provided all students enrolled in a visual/performing 
arts class with their own instructional materials or supplemental materials to use in class and to take 
home. These materials comply with the state™s content standards and curriculum frameworks.
The Santa Paula Unified School District is using supplemental materials in addition to current 
Science textbooks and History/Social Science textbooks in order to meet State requirements, but 
plans to pilot and adopt textbooks as follows:K-5 History-SS -Pilot/Adoption: 2020-21K-5 Science Œ Pilot/Adoption 2021-22Specialized Instruction
All curriculum and instruction are being aligned to the California State Standards approved by the 
State Board of Education. Every student receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned 
curriculum. The district provides chrome books or iPads to all students as part of a 1:1 technology 
initiative and supports the utilization of google suite to enhance student learning. Thelma Bedell 
Elementary School structures its educational program so that all students receive instruction 
appropriate to their learning level. To ensure the success of every student, teachers use a variety of 
instructional techniques using research-based instructional materials and strategies. 
Special Education students are mainstreamed into the general education classroom based upon 
their IEP (Individual Education Plan) and provided instruction in the least restrictive environment. 
Each student is assigned a case manager to oversee the implementation of the IEP. Special 
Education services include regular education accommodations, speech and language services, 
audiology services, and psychological counseling. General education and Special Education staff 
provide support to students through a blended, co-teaching model to provide core instruction. Each 
student is provided instruction based upon their IEP, which is reviewed and updated annually by the 
school™s IEP team. The IEP ensures students with disabilities have equal access to core curriculum 
and educational opportunities and is designed to coordinate specially-designed instruction based 
upon individual academic, social, and/or behavioral needs.  
Thelma Bedell Elementary School provides English Language Learner (ELL) students with English 
Language Development (ELD) instruction within their regular classrooms.  Students are grouped 
by acquisition level for 30 minutes daily in kindergarten through second grade and 45 minutes daily 
for students in third through fifth grades. English Learner students also receive integrated language 
support throughout the day in their core curricular areas. Newcomers receive ELD specifically 
designed for their language level by an ELD specialist.  
In the Local Control Accountability Plan the Santa Paula Unified School District has made a 
commitment to have all students reading by 3rd grade. Therefore, funds were allotted at each school 
site for one full-time K-2 reading intervention teacher and one half-time 3-5 reading intervention 
teacher who will assist classroom teachers with Tier I strategies as well as provide Tier II pull out 
intervention for students working below grade level.  Additionally, a half-time PE teacher allows 
classroom teachers to create small intervention groups to work with struggling students.Professional Staff

During the 2018-19 school year, Thelma 
Bedell Elementary had 18 teachers who met 
all credential requirements in accordance with 
state guidelines.  The chart below identifies 
the number of teachers at both the school and 
district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without 
full credentials; 3) teaching outside subject area 
of competence; 4) misassignments for English 
learners; 5) total teacher misassignments; 
and 6) vacant teacher positions.  Those 
teachers without a full credential include LEA 
and university internships, pre-internships, 
emergency or other permits, and waivers.  The 
term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number 
of positions filled by teachers who lack legal 
authorization to teacher that grade level, 
subject area, student group, etc.Thelma Bedell Elementary provides 
professional, highly qualified staff that provide 
additional services and support centered on 
the whole student academically, physically, 
and mentally. The Counseling and Support 
Services table in this report illustrates the 
availability of non-instructional support staff to 
Thelma Bedell Elementary™s students. Full-time 
equivalent (FTE) is a standard measurement 
used to identify an employee™s regular work 
load on a weekly basis. For example, an FTE 
of 1.0 designates a full-time position and the 
employee is on campus and available all day 
every day of the week; an FTE of 0.5 indicates 
that the staff member is available and on 
campus a portion (50%) of the week.˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
˜˝˜˝˜˚
˘
˜˝˜˝˜˚
˘
ˇˇˇ˚ˇˇ
˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
€˘•ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
˘







Thelma Bedell Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
District Expenditures
State law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State 
Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state.For the 2017-18 school year, Santa Paula 
Unified School District spent an average of 
$12,956 of total general funds to educate each 
student (based on 2017-18 audited financial 
statements). The table in this report: 1) 
compares the school™s per pupil expenditures 
from unrestricted (basic) and restricted 
(supplemental) sources with other schools in 
the district and throughout the state, and 2) 
compares the average teacher salary at the 
school site with average teacher salaries at the 
district and state levels. Detailed information 
regarding expenditures and salaries can be 
found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures 
shown in the table below reflect the direct cost of educational services, per ADA, excluding food 
services, facilities acquisition and construction, and certain other expenditures.)

In addition to general fund state funding, Santa Paula Unified School District receives state and 
federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District received 
federal, state, and local aid for the following categorical, Special Education, and support programs:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)Ł Career and Technical Education Programs
Ł California Career Pathways Trust
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł Department of RehabilitationŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Other Local:  Locally DefinedŁ Partnership Academies Program
Ł Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
SARC Data & Internet 
AccessDataQuest is an online data tool located at 
http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains 
additional information about Thelma Bedell 
Elementary School and comparisons of the 
school to the district, the county, and the 
state.  DataQuest provides reports for school 
accountability, including but not limited to, 
CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, 
Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing 
statistics.
Parents may access Thelma Bedell Elementary 
School™s SARC and access the Internet at any 
of the county™s public libraries. The closest 
public library to Thelma Bedell Elementary 
School is the Santa Paula Public Library 
located at 119 North 8th Street, Santa Paula.
Santa Paula Public LibraryPhone: (805) 525-3615Hours:  Mon., Tues. & Thurs. 12-8 
             Wed. 10-6
             Sat. 10-2; 
             Fri. & Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 7
Printers Available: Yes







Thelma Bedell Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
