Barbara Webster Elementary School
 1 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Principal™s Message
The School Accountability Report Card was 
established by Proposition 98, an initiative 
passed by California voters in November 
1998.  The report Card, to be issued annually 
by local school boards for each elementary 
and secondary school in the state, provides for 
parents and other interested people a variety 
of information about the school, its successes, 
and the areas in which improvements are 
needed.As you read this Report Card for Barbara 
Webster Elementary School, I believe you will 
find a picture of a school with commitment 
towards meeting the learning needs of all of 
our students.District & School 
Description
Santa Paula Unified School District is located 
in the city of Santa Paula, a small historical 
community serving approximately 30,000 
residents within a 4.6 square-mile radius 
surrounded by rolling hills, avocado, and citrus 
groves. Santa Paula City is approximately 65 
miles northwest of Los Angeles and 14 miles 
east of Ventura. Santa Paula Unified School 
District operates six elementary schools, 
one middle school, one comprehensive high 
school and one continuation high school all 
nestled against the city™s foothills. During the 
2018-19 school year, the District served 5,270 
students in grades TK-12. The demographic 
composition of the student body included 
13.6% students identified with a disability, 
35.8% qualifying for English learner support, 
88.6% enrolled in the Free or Reduced Price 
Meal program, 1.4% migrant, 0.1% foster 
youth, and 9.6% homeless youth.District Vision & 
Mission
The Santa Paula Unified School District provides 
exemplary learning environments for all students 
to be prepared to successfully contribute to a 
diverse global society.
The Santa Paula Unified School District, in 
collaboration with educators, parents, and 
community, will prepare students academically, 
emotionally and socially for college, careers, 
global citizenship, and lifelong learning.  At each 
grade level, all students are provided diverse 
and differentiated experiences and learning 
opportunities by a highly skilled educational team 
in a safe and supportive learning environment.
The Santa Paula Unified School District Board 
of Trustees strongly value and believe that our 
students need to be prepared for the 21st Century.  
Consequently, the District™s core values reflect a 
commitment to:Ł  improving student academic performanceŁ  providing safe and healthy schoolsŁ  promoting stakeholder inputŁ  fostering a positive district cultureEducating our students and supporting the school 
community is our responsibility!
During the 2018-19 school year, Barbara Webster 
Elementary served 343 students in grades TK-5. 
Student enrollment included 67.6% qualifying for 
English learner support, 14.6% students identified 
with a disability, 94.2% enrolled in the Free or 
Reduced Price Meal program, 2.9% migrant, 
0.6% foster youth, and 12.8% homeless youth.  
Barbara Webster Elementary School
 2 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
The ﬁKindergartenﬂ number of students shown in the chart above includes both 
TK and kindergarten numbers.Local Control 
Accountability Plan 
(LCAP)
As part of the Local Control Funding Formula, 
school districts are required to develop, adopt, 
and annually update a three-year Local Control 
and Accountability Plan (LCAP). The following 
components of this SARC address some of the 
priorities identified in the District™s LCAP:
State Priority 1: Basic (Conditions of Learning)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł  
Degree to which teachers are appropriately 
assigned and fully credentialed in the 
subject area and for the pupils they are 
teaching;Ł Pupils have access to standards-aligned 
instructional materials; and School facilities 
are maintained in good repair.
State Priority 2: State Standards (Conditions of 
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 2.State Priority 3: Parental Involvement 
(Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł Efforts the school district makes to seek 
parent input in making decisions for the 
school district and each school site.State Priority 4: Pupil Achievement (Pupil 
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł  
Statewide assessments (i.e., California 
Assessment of Student Performance 
and Progress [CAASPP] System, which 
includes the Smarter Balanced Summative 
Assessments for students in the general 
education population and the California 
Alternate Assessments [CAAs] for English 
language arts/literacy [ELA] and mathematics 
given in grades three through eight and grade 
eleven. Only eligible students may participate 
in the administration of the CAAs. CAAs 
items are aligned with alternate achievement 
standards, which are linked with the Common 
Core State Standards [CCSS] for students 
with the most significant cognitive disabilities);Ł  
The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the California 
State University, or career technical education 
sequences or programs of study;Ł The percentage of students who have 
successfully completed courses that 
satisfy the requirements for entrance to the 
University of California and the California 
State University, or career technical education 
sequences or programs of study.
State Priority 5: Pupil Engagement (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł High school dropout rates;Ł High school graduation rates.State Priority 6: School Climate (Engagement)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority:Ł Pupil suspension rates;Ł Pupil expulsion rates; 
Ł Other local measures on the sense of safety.
State Priority 7: Course Access (Conditions of 
Learning)The SARC does not cover any of the 
requirements of State Priority 7.State Priority 8: Other Pupil Outcomes (Pupil 
Outcomes)The SARC provides the following information 
relevant to the State priority: 
Ł Pupil outcomes in the subject area of physical 
education.Parent Involvement
Parents are encouraged to get involved in 
their child™s learning environment either by 
volunteering in the classroom, participating in 
a decision-making group, or simply attending 
school events.




Chaperone Field Trips
Classroom HelperBobcat BoostersFundraising ActivitiesParent Involvement MeetingsEnglish Learner Advisory Council
District Advisory Committee (DAC)
District English Learner Advisory Council
Bobcat BoostersSchool Site Council
Back to School NightPrincipal™s Monthly Parent Meetings
Open HouseStudent Recognition Assemblies (Trimesterly)
Winter & Spring PerformancesParents stay informed on upcoming events 
and school activities through flyers, monthly 
newsletters  our Barbara Webster website, and 
Blackboard Connect. Contact the principal or 
the school office at (805) 933-8930 for more 
information on how to become involved in your 
child™s learning environment.
Student Achievement

 Santa Paula Unified School District utilizes 
districtwide interim assessments that are 
aligned to the Common Core State Standards.  
These assessments are used to evaluate 
instructional programs and measure student 
proficiency of all students in math and 
language arts.  Test results are used to 1) 
help teachers identify areas where instruction 
may or may not be effective, 2) analyze and 
readjust curriculum maps, 3) identify concepts 
that need to be retaught in the classroom, 4) 
plan in-class lessons, and 5) identify students 
who need targeted academic assistance or 
intervention.

The California Assessment of Student 
Performance and Progress (CAASPP) 
System includes the Smarter Balanced 
Summative Assessments (SBAC) for students 
in the general education population, and the 
California Alternate Assessments (CAAs) for 
students with the most significant cognitive 
disabilities.  Only eligible students may 
participate in the administration of the CAAs.  
CAAs items are aligned with alternative 
achievement standards, which are linked 
with the Common Core State Standards 
(CCSS).  CAASPP results are a measure of 
Barbara Webster Elementary School
 3 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
School Facilities & 
Safety
Barbara Webster Elementary School provides 
a safe, clean environment for learning through 

proper facilities maintenance and campus 

supervision. Original school buildings were 

constructed in the 1920s; ongoing maintenance 

ensures school facilities are kept safe and in 

good working condition, and continue to provide 

adequate space for students and staff.  
A work order process is used by school and 
district staff to communicate non-routine 

maintenance requests. Emergency repairs are 

given the highest priority. 
2018-19 through 2019-20 Campus Repair or 
Improvement Projects:ŁRoof replacement projectŁAir conditioning improvement projectŁParking lot paving replacement projectŁGarden/outdoor classroomEvery morning before school begins, the custodian inspects facilities for safety hazards 
or other conditions that need attention prior to 

students and staff entering school grounds. 
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙
ˆ

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘ˆ˝ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛˛ˆ˛˚˘ˆˆ˛ˆ˝ˆ˛ˆˆ˛ˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚˚ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˚˘ˆ˛˚ˆ˚˛˛ˆ˛ˆ





˝˚
ˇ



ˇ˝†
‘
ˇ


š€

˜˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˘



˚

˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆˆ
ˆˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
ˇ˚˙
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ
˜˛
ˆ˚˛ˆ
˜˛
ˆˆˆ
ˆˇ
˙˙ˆ˛ˆ˜˛


˝˙


‘˝˙


’šˆˆš˘˚


•‡š˛
……………………………………………………š˝˙˙—ˆ–š˝˘˛


ˇ˘⁄˙š‡ˆ


˛ˆ‹š˛‡ˆ–š˙š˛š


˛ˆ›š˘⁄ˆš˝˘˛ˆˇ˝˛š˚˘ˆƒš
……
……
……
……………………………………‘˛ˆ−‡
……………………………………………………˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˛˙
ˇ˙


˘
˘
˘˙˚
˘˜
˘
˘
˘†
˘
˘˘
•






how well students are mastering California™s standards in English language arts/literacy (ELA) and 
mathematics, and are given to grades three through eight and grade eleven. SBAC tests assess 

student performance in ELA/Literacy and mathematics utilizing computer-adaptive tests and 

performance tasks, and CAAs test items are aligned with alternative achievement standards which 

are linked with the Common Core State Standards (CCSS). 
The CAASPP results shown in this report include overall results comparing the school, district and 
state scores as well as the school™s overall score in each applicable subgroup. Results are shown 

only for subgroups with ten students or more taking the exam. For those categories that are blank 

in the tables, no students met subgroup criteria. More information on CAASPP can be found on the 

California Department of Education™s website www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/ca/.
In the spring of each year, Barbara Webster Elementary is required by the state to administer 

a physical fitness test to all students in the fifth grade. The physical fitness test measures each 

student™s ability to complete six fitness tasks in six major areas. Students that either meet or exceed 

the standards in five of six fitness areas are considered to be physically fit or in the ﬁhealthy fitness 

zone.ﬂ Comparative district and state results can be found at the CDE™s website www.cde.ca.gov/

ta/tg/pf/. 
Barbara Webster Elementary School
 4 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Classroom 
Environment
The Class Size Distribution table in this report 
illustrates the distribution of class sizes by 
grade level, the average class size, and the 
number of classes that contain 1-20 students, 
21-32 students, and 33 or more students. 
Calculations exclude classrooms of 50 or more 
students. 
The ﬁKﬂ number of students shown in the chart above includes both TK and 
kindergarten numbers.School administration and teaching staff place 
a high priority on providing adequate adult 
supervision on campus before, during, and after 
school. As students arrive on campus each 
morning, one yard duty supervisor and one 
teacher are strategically assigned to designated 
entrance areas and the playground, and cafeteria 
staff monitor student activity while at breakfast in 
the cafeteria. During recess teachers monitor 
playground activity. Cafeteria staff monitor lunch 
time activity while students are in the cafeteria, 
and five yard duty supervisors monitor activity 
on the playground.  At the end of the day when 
students are dismissed, teachers monitor 
student behavior to ensure a safe and orderly 
departure. 
Many individuals visit the campus as volunteers 
or to participate in school events. To maintain a 
safe and secure environment, all parents and 
visitors are required to check in at the school 
office upon arrival, obtain and wear a visitor™s 
sticker, and then return to the school office upon 
departure.Santa Paula Unified School District allocates 
deferred maintenance money to fund the repairs 
or replacement of existing school building 
components which typically include projects such 
as roofing, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, 
electrical systems, interior/exterior painting and 
flooring systems.During the 2018-19 school year, Santa Paula 
Unified School District allocated $182,381 of 
deferred maintenance funds for the following 
projects at Barbara Webster Elementary School:
Ł Roofing projectsŁ Window replacements / window shadesŁ Termite repair projects
Ł Technology Upgrades
One day custodian and two evening custodians 
(one full-time and one part-time) are assigned 
to Barbara Webster Elementary. The day 
custodian is responsible for:Ł Lunch area setup and cleaningŁ Office area cleaning
Ł Restroom cleaningŁ Trash removal
Restrooms are checked regularly throughout 
the day for cleanliness and subsequently 
cleaned as needed. The evening custodian is 
responsible for:Ł Classroom cleaningŁ Kitchen cleaningŁ Restroom cleaningThe principal communicates with custodial 
staff daily concerning maintenance and school 
safety issues.On an annual basis, schools are required 
by the state to perform a comprehensive 
inspection and report those findings to the 
school community. The most recent inspection 
for Barbara Webster Elementary School took 
place on August 13, 2019. The School Facility 
Good Repair Status table illustrated in this 
report identifies the state-required inspection 
areas and discloses the operational status in 
each of those areas. During the 2018-19 school 
year, 100% of restrooms were fully operational 
and available to students at all times.The Comprehensive School Site Safety 
Plan was developed for Barbara Webster 
Elementary in collaboration with local agencies 
and the district office to fulfill Senate Bill 187 
requirements. Components of this plan include 
child abuse reporting procedures, teacher 
notification of dangerous pupil procedures, 
disaster response procedures, procedures for 
safe arrival and departure from school, sexual 
harassment policy, dress code policy, and bully 
prevention policy. The school™s most current 
safety plan was reviewed, updated and shared 
with school staff in fall 2019.



˜˚˛˝˛˜˚˙˛˙˙ˆ
ˇ˝
˜˝˙
˛˝˛˜
˙˝
˛˝˜˛
˝
˙˝˜
ˇ˝˛˛
˜˝˙
˛˝˙
˙˝˙
˝
˛˝
˛˝˜
ˇ˝˜˙
˜˝
˛˛˝˙
˙˝˙
˝
˛˝
˛˝˜




†
‘’š
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˛ˇˇ
˘˛˝
˜˘
˛˝˜˘˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˘˘˘˝˘˘˘
ˆ˘˘ˇ˘˘˘
˘

˜˜˘˘˘˘˘˝˘ˆ
Barbara Webster Elementary School
 5 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card

Students are encouraged to participate in the school™s additional academic and extracurricular 
activities that are an integral part of the educational program.  Students may participate in the 
ASPIRE Program which provides homework time and enrichment activities such as reading, 
computers, creative writing, math, sports, arts and crafts, self-esteem building activities, the Nova 
STAR program games and recreation, the garden club, and the academic ambassador™s club.

Barbara Webster Elementary School offers a Gifted and Talented Education (GATE) program to 
students who qualify.  GATE students in grades three through five are clustered together in classes 
and are provided with differentiated instruction from the classroom teacher.
Barbara Webster Elementary School recognizes students for their achievement every trimester by 
giving out certificates, ribbons, prizes, and various other awards at student recognition assemblies 
once per trimester.
Students at Barbara Webster Elementary School are guided by specific rules and classroom 
expectations that promote respect, safety and responsibility. The school™s discipline philosophy 
promotes a safe school, a warm and friendly classroom environment, and demonstrates that 
good discipline is a solid foundation on which to build an effective school. The goal of Barbara 
Webster Elementary School™s discipline program is to provide students with opportunities to learn 
self-discipline through a system of consistent rewards and consequences for their behavior. These 
principles are guided in part by a schoolwide participation in HelloYello.  
With HelloYello, students are empowered to take proactive steps that address their own needs, while 
simultaneously being directed away from the chain reaction of punishment that leads to feelings of 
low self worth.  Teachers are able to easily reward students with specific, personalized responses 
that address their unique experiences; as well as reinforce them for communicating openly with a 
trusted adult, and forging a durable, lifelong behavior pattern that promotes fulfilling relationships. All 
teachers in grades K-5 are in the process of reading and implementing aspects of this philosophy. 
All Barbara Webster students take part each day in a schoolwide yoga and meditation program 
designed to give students tools to calm themselves and create more focus during academic 
instruction. 
Parents and students are informed of discipline policies at the beginning of each school year through 
a District Annual Parent Handbook and newsletters.  
Curriculum & Instruction
All professional development opportunities at Santa Paula Unified School District are aligned to 
the California State Standards. Staff development concentrations are selected and identified based 
upon district initiatives, student assessment results, teacher input, state content standards, and 
professional development surveys.During the 2018-19 school year, Barbara Webster Elementary provited site-based staff development 
after school at staff meetings. Topics were centered around the District™s focus for staff development 
identified by the Educational Services Department. Training topics included:
Ł Integrated English Learner Development
the following staff development training:
Santa Paula Unified School District supports 
new teachers in developing their teaching skills 
and earning a Professional Clear Teaching 
Credential. The district™s New Teacher 
Induction Consortium, formerly known as the, 
Beginning Teacher Support and Assessment 
(BTSA) program, is designed for first- and 
second-year teachers to receive structured 
guidance and support from experienced 
teachers over a two-year period. 
Staff members are encouraged to attend 
professional workshops and conferences. 
New teachers, experienced teachers, 
mentor/teacher leaders, administrators, and 
support staff are encouraged to participate in 
workshops sponsored by the Ventura County 
Office of Education. Special education staff 
participate in local and county sponsored 
professional training activities throughout 
the school year. Classified support staff may 
receive additional job-related training from 
the county office of education. All classified 
staff participate in county- and district-
sponsored training sessions addressing 
sexual harassment, sexual molestation, and 
ergonomics.

2017-18
0 days
2018-19
0 days
2019-20
0 days
 English Language Arts: Wonders Curriculum
   Exploration, English Language Development & Writing
   Instruction
 Science: Building Awareness, Instructional Model &
   Hands on Examples
 Mathematics: Instructional Routines, Building Number
  Sense & Math Learning Walks
Number of School Days/Topics Dedicated to Staff 
Development & Continuous Improvement
 Pacing Guides Training
 ELD Standards Training
 Report Card Training
 Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS)
 Engaging English Learners
 Formative Assessments
 Literably Online Assessment Pilot
 Picture Perfect Science
 Curriculum Advisory Team (CAT) 
 1 to 1 Initiative (Technology)
 Curriculum Advisory Team (CAT) 
 ELA
 ELD
 Lesson Planning & Observation
 Lesson Study
 Literably Online Assessment
 Mathematics
 Next Generation Science Standards
 Picture Perfect Science
 Technology
 Writing
Barbara Webster Elementary School
 6 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Specialized 
Instruction
All curriculum and instruction are being aligned 
to the California State Standards approved by 
the State Board of Education. Every student 
receives a rigorous, well-balanced standards-aligned curriculum. The district provides 
chrome books or iPads to all students as part 
of a 1:1 technology initiative and supports the 
utilization of google suite to enhance student 
learning. Barbara Webster Elementary School 
structures its educational program so that all 
students receive instruction appropriate to 
their learning level. To ensure the success 
of every student, teachers use a variety of 
instructional techniques using research-based 
instructional materials and strategies. 
Barbara Webster has two SDC classes serving 
severe students (one serves grades K-2 and 
other grades 3-5).  There is one SDC teacher 
in each class along with three aides per class.  
Special Education students are mainstreamed 
into the general education classroom based 
upon their IEP (Individual Education Plan) 
and provided instruction in the least restrictive 
environment. Each student is assigned a case 
manager to oversee the implementation of 
the IEP. Special Education services include 
regular education accommodations, speech 
and language services, audiology services, 
and psychological counseling. General 
education and Special Education staff provide 
support to students through a collaborative 
model to provide core instruction. Each 
student is provided instruction based upon 
their IEP, which is reviewed and updated 
annually by the school™s IEP team. The IEP 
ensures students with disabilities have equal 
access to core curriculum and educational 
opportunities and is designed to coordinate 
specially-designed instruction based upon 
individual academic, social, and/or behavioral 
needs.  
Barbara Webster Elementary School provides 
English Language Learner (ELL) students 
with English Language Development (ELD) 
instruction within their regular classrooms.  
Students are grouped by acquisition level 
for 30 minutes daily in kindergarten through 
second grade and 45 minutes daily for 
students in third through fifth grades. English 
Learner students also receive integrated 
language support throughout the day in their 
core curricular areas. Newcomers receive 
ELD specifically designed for their language 
level by an ELD specialist.  
2017Yes 
McMillan McGraw Hill - 
Wonders
0%2015Yes 
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt - 
Math Expressions
0%2008NoDelta Foss Science Kits - 
CA Science
0%2007NoPearson Scott Foresman - History/Social Science
0%Science
Social Science
Year 
Adopted
Publisher and Series
Percent of Pupils 
Who Lack Their Own 
Assigned Textbooks 
and/or Instructional 
Materials
From Most 
Recent State 
Adoption?
Textbooks
Reading/Language Arts
Math
All textbooks used in the core curriculum throughout Santa Paula Unified School District are currently 
being aligned to the California State Standards. Instructional materials are standards-based and 
approved by the district™s Board of Trustees. The district follows the State Board of Education™s 
adoption cycle for core content materials and for textbook adoptions in foreign language, visual and 
performing arts, and health. 
On September 11, 2019, the Santa Paula Unified School District™s Board of Trustees held a public 
hearing to certify the extent to which textbooks and instructional materials have been provided 
to students. The Board of Trustees adopted 
Resolution 2019 - 20:01 Sufficiency of Textbooks or 
Instructional Materials which certifies as required by Education Code §60119 that (1) textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to all students, including English Learners, in the district to 
the extent that each student has a textbook or instructional materials, or both, to use in class and 
to take home, which may include materials in a digital format but shall not include photocopied 
sheets from only a portion of a textbook or instructional materials copied to address a shortage 
(2) all students who are enrolled in the same course within the district, have standards-aligned 
textbooks or instructional materials from the same adoption cycle, 3) sufficient textbooks and 
instructional materials were provided to each student, including English Learners, that are aligned 
to the academic content standards and consistent with the cycles and content of the curriculum 
frameworks in math, science, history-social science, and English/language arts, including the 
English language development component of an adopted program, and 4) sufficient textbooks or 
instructional materials were provided to each student enrolled in foreign language or health classes, 
and 5) laboratory science equipment was available for science laboratory classes offered in grades 
9-12, inclusive. 
In addition to the core subject areas, districts are required to disclose in this annual report the 
sufficiency of instructional materials used for its visual/performing arts curricula. During the 2019-20 
school year, Santa Paula Unified School District provided all students enrolled in a visual/performing 
arts class with their own instructional materials or supplemental materials to use in class and to take 
home. These materials comply with the state™s content standards and curriculum frameworks.
The Santa Paula Unified School District is using supplemental materials in addition to current 
Science textbooks and History/Social Science textbooks in order to meet State requirements, but 
plans to pilot and adopt textbooks as follows:K-5 History-SS -Pilot/Adoption: 2020-21K-5 Science Œ Pilot/Adoption 2021-22Barbara Webster Elementary School
 7 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
Barbara Webster Elementary School provides 
several reading and math intervention 
programs to meet the needs of those students 
not meeting state proficiency standards.  We 
offer in school and after school intervention 
programs.  We use district baseline 
assessments determine the reading and math 
levels and needs for each student.  During 
the school day our Learning Center provides 
reading intervention to upwards of 100 students 
a day in a small groups.  The Learning Center 
team of specialist teachers monitor their 
students™ progress periodically in order to move 
each child towards grade level skills.  We also 
offer after school tutoring in math.
Professional Staff
Barbara Webster Elementary provides 
professional, highly qualified staff that provide 
additional services and support centered on 
the whole student academically, physically, and 
mentally. The Counseling and Support Services 
table in this report illustrates the availability 
of non-instructional support staff to Barbara 
Webster Elementary™s students. Full-time 
equivalent (FTE) is a standard measurement 
used to identify an employee™s regular work 
load on a weekly basis. For example, an FTE 
of 1.0 designates a full-time position and the 
employee is on campus and available all day 
every day of the week; an FTE of 0.5 indicates 
that the staff member is available and on 
campus a portion (50%) of the week.





˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˘˙˝˙˙ˆ˙˙˙
˙ˇ˘˘˙˙ˆ˙
˙˙˙˙˙˙
˘˘˝‘
˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ˜˚˛˜˝˜˝˛˜˙˜˙˛ˆˇ
˘˘
ˆ˜˜˙
˘
ˆ˜˜˙
˘
ˇˇˇ˚ˇˇ
˘“
‘’š
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
€˘•ˇˇˇˇˇ
ˇ˘˘€…
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˘—
ˇˇˇˇˇˇ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˆˇ˘ˆˆ˛˚ˆ˛ˆˆ
˛ˆˆ˛ˆˆˆ
˛˚ˆ˛˛ˆˆ˛ˆ
ˆ˛ˆˆ˝˛ˆ†“˚˛ˆ“ˆ
˘ˆˆ˛ˆˆ˘
ˆˆ“ˆˆ‘
˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˘ˆˇ
–ƒ


During the 2018-19 school year, Barbara Webster Elementary had 23 teachers who met all 
credential requirements in accordance with state guidelines.  The chart below identifies the number 
of teachers at both the school and district who are 1) fully credentialed; 2) without full credentials; 
3) teaching outside subject area of competence; 4) misassignments for English learners; 5) total 
teacher misassignments; and 6) vacant teacher positions.  Those teachers without a full credential 
include LEA and university internships, pre-internships, emergency or other permits, and waivers.  
The term ﬁmisassignmentsﬂ refers to the number of positions filled by teachers who lack legal 
authorization to teacher that grade level, subject area, student group, etc.District Expenditures
State law requires comparative salary and 
budget information to be reported to the general 
public. For comparison purposes, the State 
Department of Education has provided average 
salary data from school districts having similar 
average daily attendance throughout the state.For the 2017-18 school year, Santa Paula Unified 
School District spent an average of $12,956 
of total general funds to educate each student 
(based on 2017-18 audited financial statements). 
The table in this report: 1) compares the school™s 
per pupil expenditures from unrestricted (basic) 
and restricted (supplemental) sources with other 
schools in the district and throughout the state, 
and 2) compares the average teacher salary at 
the school site with average teacher salaries at 
the district and state levels. Detailed information 
regarding expenditures and salaries can be found at the CDE website at www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/
ec/ and www.cde.ca.gov/ds/fd/cs/. (The figures shown in the table below reflect the direct cost of 
educational services, per ADA, excluding food services, facilities acquisition and construction, and 
certain other expenditures.)






Barbara Webster Elementary School
 8 2018-19 School Accountability Report Card
In addition to general fund state funding, Santa Paula Unified School District receives state and 
federal categorical funding for special programs. For the 2017-18 school year, the District received 
federal, state, and local aid for the following categorical, Special Education, and support programs:Ł After School Education & Safety (ASES)Ł Career and Technical Education Programs
Ł California Career Pathways Trust
Ł Career Technical Education Incentive Grant Program
Ł Department of RehabilitationŁ Education Protection Account
Ł Lottery: Instructional MaterialsŁ Medi-Cal Billing OptionŁ Other Local:  Locally DefinedŁ Partnership Academies Program
Ł Special EducationŁ State LotteryŁ STRS On-Behalf Pension ContributionsŁ Title I, II, III
Ł Tobacco-Use Prevention Education
SARC Data & Internet Access
DataQuest is an online data tool located at http://dq.cde.ca.gov/dataquest/ that contains additional 
information about Barbara Webster Elementary School and comparisons of the school to the district, 
the county, and the state.  DataQuest provides reports for school accountability, including but not 
limited to, CAASPP results, Physical Fitness results, Suspensions and Expulsions, Dropout & 
Graduation Rates, enrollment, and staffing statistics.

Parents may access Barbara Webster Elementary School™s SARC and access the Internet at any of 
the county™s public libraries. The closest public library to Barbara Webster Elementary School is the 
Santa Paula Public Library located at 119 North 8th Street, Santa Paula.
Santa Paula Public LibraryPhone: (805) 525-3615Hours:  Mon., Tues. & Thurs. 12-8 
             Wed. 10-6
             Sat. 10-2; 
             Fri. & Sun: ClosedNumber of Computers Available: 7
Printers Available: Yes


